## Curveball

My wife was asking me just the other day what that historiography class was all about. After some babbling about the **history of history, historian bias, what is truth**, and so on I was meet with a blank look of confusion. I took a minute to regroup and came up with _curveball._ She said, “Curveball?” I replied that just when you think you got everything figured out a curveball comes along and keeps you guessing. This is a bit of dramatization, but the general idea fits. During this class and for the foreseeable future the way I will look at history has changed. I’m, like I’m sure most of us are, are aware idea of authoritative figures, like historians, not reporting the whole truth because it doesn’t fit in the narrative they wish to portray but keeping an eye out for different factors like language will change the lenses on which I view history. 

I think the readings in this class have also helped in understanding how to approach the study of history. This became most evident in the essay assignment for the intro guide. While compiling sources and a general outline of the essay I was feeling comfortable with the direction it was heading. I took a couple days break, thanks to being short staffed at work, and came back to the essay and saw that it was heading towards a historical essay instead of a historiography essay. I snapped that I had to make myself uncomfortable in the way I attacked my research and seek out my sources. The moral of the story is to _being comfortable and keeping things status quo is a weakness_. 

### Completely different while staying the same

As we have talked at length this semester, the new, groundbreaking ideas of new philosophers changing the way we view history is the recycled idea of the previous philosophers with some new and improved bells and whistles. Looking at the philosophy of history in this _micro_ mentality we see the formula for which they are trying to change to the world, philosophically, is merely a movement of a couple of degrees in a different direction when looking at **cycles to linear** or **Hegel to Marx**. Looking at it from _macro_ mentality with the whole picture from where we first started trudging through Lemon to now and still trudging through Lemon the jump in thinking is huge. This babbling leads me to my ultimate point that the main theme throughout the whole semester is that no matter who’s philosophy or what trend we are studying it has always been about _understanding._  

Using the situation of macro/micro and applying that a general person understanding throughout their life is a perfect representation of what we have studied. As a young child the level of understanding is on such a spectrum that anything is possible. The sky is blue because that is heaven’s ocean. As a person gets older the spectrum becomes limited due to life experience and expansion of knowledge. The more you learn the more those silly answers don’t be feasible and one searches for a more logical understanding. Looking at history people have come up with more sensible understanding for the world and what has come before them.  

Looking at _postmodernism_ with this same general idea in mind I would say that it is not a major paradigm shift from the last step of the journey, but in the grand scheme of things it is leaps and bounds from where it was. Post modernism has taken the expansion of knowledge we have gained and improved the last school of thought. We have learned how important of a role language plays in studying history and understanding what previous generations are trying to convey. At how post modernism looks down upon the metanarrative and (in theory) wants to go into a historical search with trying to fit the research into a narrative. Being completely driven by what the evidence says and nothing more. While these are new ideas on the surface deep down they represent the slight turn. Postmodernism has followed the trend that all of philosophers of history have done before. There is no rupture from the _cycles_ that we have seen all semester.  
