# Postmodernism, our class, and my brain: let's go. #

### Some opening thoughts to get this party started ###

Much of what we’ve talked and read about in class has related to impactful change in historical thought. However, the rise of postmodernism asks us to redefine that thought in a way that, to me, is matched only by the much earlier break from cyclical to linear. Lyotard and other postmodernist thinkers started talking about a new break: from grand narrative to microhistories. Now, like we talked about in class, this is an oversimplification of the facts. We discussed that some postmodernist thinkers were interested in constructing an even grander narrative, made up of individual microhistories. Regardless, this seems to have shaped the historical field in a long-lasting way. I think about my undergraduate studies in history, for example. While many of my classes told grander narratives, the sources for the classes and lectures held by the department told microhistories. As a member of Phi Alpha Theta, I also have a subscription to The Historian, and the papers within tell the same story. 

### How much has my own perception changed? ###

In some ways, I think our earlier readings changed my ideas about history more than our more recent ones. This is because a lot of what we’ve read about postmodernism is, as I’ve mentioned, reflected in the experience of a modern-day history major. However, what did, and continues to, change within my perception was that history needs to be thought about. Specifically, the idea of approaching different cultural histories with different methodologies was a little mind-blowing. We talked about, for example, the need to approach oral histories from the cultural perspective of the region, rather than from our own tendency to manuscripts. In the same vein, in order to study previously ignored histories like those of women and non-Europeans, the source material requires a different kind of creativity to find, and again the historian is influenced to reach outside of their comfort zone.

### How much of this really applies to the rest of our world? ###

It’s hard to say whether postmodernism has truly contributed to a paradigm shift in historical thinking, be it historiography, philosophy of history, or the actual practice of historical output. The latter is where one could most easily argue against a paradigm shift: children still learn sweeping histories in school, for starters. It has me thinking about a turn of phrase we use in english. When something politically or culturally significant happens, we tend to say it will ‘go down in history’. We also talk a lot about ‘the right/wrong side of history’, especially in our current political climate. Does this indicate a change in public perception of history, or a sedentary view relatively unaffected by postmodernist thought? On the one hand, the general public in this country tends to view history as a series of important, influential events which create a general narrative. These statements also tend to insinuate that modern historians are able to make final judgement on whether the people of the past were good or bad. On the other hand, though, the events considered influential have changed somewhat. Rather than just looking at political histories from the leaders’ perspectives, cultural movements now hold a place at the table of ‘history’.

### And a nice little conclusion. ###

If I’ve learned anything from this class, it’s that our perceptions about the past and present now are subject to change. As close as we can try to get to truth, someone in the future will almost certainly alter or completely remove our perspectives from the agreed upon method. What postmodernism tends to do, which is so fundamentally different from other historiography, is to try and recognize this truth in the present. By looking for a fuller picture, we are more likely to bend rather than break when the picture changes. 
