Corey Price
10-21-19
HIST 491
Commenting postmodernism:
	Postmodernism seems to be about history being dead.  But that is not true for we are living through history every day.  My take on postmodernism is that history is not dead.  Those that think history is dead need to be reminded that we are living proof that history is made daily.  That is what I am getting from sections of the readings in the PoH textbook that I could understand.  The rest of the readings consisted of big words that I didn’t understand, pronounce, and know what they meant.  Some of those words I’ve seen for the first time.  The readings affected my way of thinking about history in the fact that the large amount of big words in the text made it difficult for me to properly understand the meaning.  I could understand from our class on Monday is that there are major shifts in understanding about history such as from cyclical to linear shifts in thinking about history.  This is true when studying about military history for example.  New inventions made old ways of warfare obsolete like when gunpowder made metal armor and stone castles inferior, or when the invention of tanks and armored vehicles replace horses as the means for rapid campaign movement.  The invention of airplanes made maritime powers focus on building fleets around aircraft carriers instead of fleets around battleships, battlecruisers, and heavy cruisers.  Another thing I picked up was people like Hayden White believed that history is fiction.  I know for a fact that is not true.  For example, wars leave behind traces for others to see.  This is especially true with World War II.  The Normandy Coast still show signs of the Allied landings along the beaches.  From concrete pillboxes and rusty metal, to the shell craters on Point Du Hoc made from bombers and the Battleship USS Texas.
	Historiography and postmodernism aren’t focused in the US alone.  Different cultures have different ways of thinking historically, and as such, require different historical methods.  This can be true when viewing how much history a region has from a timeline perspective.  Take the United States for example, it has been around only for a few hundred years, while places in Europe, the Middle East, and Asia, there exists tens of thousands of years’ worth of history.  Another aspect was the fact of major shifts in understanding history.  For a long time, the church held all of the knowledge in Europe until the Renaissance when major people like Martin Luthor changed the focus from a biblical viewpoint on seeking knowledge to a more logical and scientific means of gaining knowledge.  Another point is the fact that sound analytical history is incompatible with nationalism.  Nationalism in a sense gives only a one-sided perspective on certain historical events.  Such as if one side of a war focusing only on the victory and not on the defeats in order to make the other look like the bad guy to its citizens.
	Since I couldn’t really understand what was being said in the readings, I can’t tell if the late twentieth-century ways of writing about history that we’ve discussed a ‘rupture’ from previous historiographies.  I am leaning more towards the late twentieth-century ways of writing about history being more on a continuum of historiographical change.  This is true when a shift causes a major change in the historiographical paradigm.  Such as when Foucault’s about the power of discourse were largely ignored by historians because he neglected historical causality.  His concept of discourse was only one of his many contributions to historians’ thinking.  His work caused a major shift in the historiographical paradigm that would last for years.
