### View of History

The 20th century was a time of multiple shifts in thinking and a shift in the value of things like art and history. Throughout the course, my view of history has changed a lot. First, when learning about thinking of history as linear or cyclical. Second, when Lemon talked about analytical history, my view of history changed again and made me question 'what is history?' Now with postmodernism, it is making me ask whether it matters or not. As Lemon states, postmodernism __"revealed the fallacy of a world"__ (pg. 587). This fallacy was the lack of reality that many of the thinkers at that time believed they were facing. Everything was being questioned, especially history, because of how can history be real if the reality we are set in is made up of other constructs. I think that postmodernism was greatly affected by the changes and shifts throughout the 20th century, especially those that dealt with race and gender. 

### Munslow's Alternative History
 
When reading about alternative history, I found it be fascinating because of what we have read so far. In previous readings, the focus has been on the bias that historians unknowingly or knowingly write into the history in which they are studying or creating. What I found to be interesting in Munslow's alternative history was that a historian needs to look __"through the exercise of our imagination create possible ranges of meanings"__ (pg. 612). Imagination is not something that I thought to be a part of history; however, when I think about it, it is in specific ways. Imagination as a way of doing history, however, can it be a less biased history. This made me ask myself, can I use imagination to be a credible way of doing history? I do not think so because I think with history, there has to be a disconnect from the past in order to write history and with a more imaginative look on history or studying history that blurs the lines and creates even more bias. However, at the same time, it makes me wonder how have I used imagination or how have I been part of alternative history. Also, Munslow talks about being __self-aware__. Another question then is whether imagination is being self-aware, or does it further construed historical narrative even more? It is all very confusing. I found Jenkins's alternative history to be very interesting too; however, more confusing and definitely more focused on political ideology and how that has possibly influenced all historical narrative. 

### Paradigm Shift

While we were discussing paradigm shifts in class, we talked about shifts in science and history, and I somewhat changed my mind. I do believe there are paradigm shifts in history; however, I fell that they are different from those in science. Postmodernism in history is not a paradigm shift. I am under the opinion that while maybe things like speculative or analytical history shifted due to postmodernism is was not a complete 180 like that of geocentrism to heliocentrism. While it was a significant shift in thought, it was not so that everything changed on all levels. At the same time, I think about the shift from Aristotlean way of thinking to a platonic way of thinking, and it is hard to come up with a finite answer. With everything, there is a continuum of change, and that rings true with postmodernism. Change needed to happen, especially with the changes occurring in overall society, especially those changes dealing with race and gender. As women became a part of the historical narrative and began being recognized for writing history, therefore, history needed to change. __Shifts in societal and cultural thinking is reflected in the way that we write and study history, and this has been true throughout the whole class.__



Disclaimer: page numbers are different because google books like to make things difficult. Sorry. 
