
## Postmodernism

In postmodernism, a concept derived in late 20th century, there are not absolute truths, nor are there any absolute realities. No one can be trusted to be the judge of any reality because their experience can not be any more credible than someone else’s. The ability to represent reality is a skill that never existed. In my opinion, I think postmodernism is just another paradigm shift that occurred simply because historians and theorists began to run out of progressive ideas. If the principles that dictate postmodernism are true, then there would be no reason to study, write, interpret history. History would be pointless, and I don’t believe it is. Of course history is often biased, skewed, altered, distorted, and flawed, but aren’t both the people who write history and those that study it? History is about the study of humanity, a flawed subject within itself; yet it is important because it is about us and our stories; our realities. I would actuality argue against postmodernism to say that the credibility of someone’s reality is more valid than the credibility of a critic judging the reality of someone else who’s reality (life) they have never experienced themselves. Rather than saying that absolute reality or absolute truth does not exist, I would say not that absolute reality and absolute truth does exist but exists differently amongst every individual. I am not certain of other realities, but I am certain that I exist, and therefor I have a reality of my own. So it is impossible that no realities exist, because I live in a reality, whether it is a reality I live in my own or one I share with everyone, that I am not certain…

## Limitation of Language

Language is very limiting. We are limited in our abilities to fully represent a reality. There are only so many letters and so many words in any particular language, I agree. However, I do not agree with the postmodernist view that a reality cannot be represented with language. Though I agree with a limitation of language to fully and completely represent a reality, I disagree with it the inability to of language to represent any reality. Language and words within a language are used to communicate constructs. In other words, they are used to communicate what might otherwise be abstract  concepts into concrete concepts. Through ages of human evolution, language has continued to improve and more words have been added to our vocabulary to further define meaning. I would agree that there continues to be a need for improvement within language, but it until recent advances in photography and film, there has been no better way for a historian to represent his/her reality other than written language. (I would also add that language provides an understanding of reality that not even recent photography or film can capture, that is, emotion. Emotion is a crucial element of reality that can be closely represented in language by the use of words, it can be communicated and related by a reader. Emotions can not be as accurately represented better in any other way. 

## History isn’t dead

Although I do recognize postmodernism as another paradigm shift in the ways we can view history, I do not believe there is enough evidence to say that postmodernism is the last conceptual framework to which we see it. Paradigm shifts have continued and have never ceased to. For the same reasons that postmodernism was created, “postmodernism is a movement based on challenging the current foundations of epistemology – the manner in which we think we achieve knowledge of reality” (385). Another paradigm shift will emerge that will continue to challenge traditional ways of thinking. 

## Perception of Thinking

Since taking this class, I have learned of different ways of thinking of history. Rather than studying a particular topic, I have learned to think of different ways and various approaches that I can take to see history in a different perspective. ‘The history of history’ is quite fascinating. It is critical, if thinking of people who thought differently, to think in the manner in which they saw. We may ask questions, in the way we think currently, that may be flawed questions according to the way others in the past thought. A good historian should always be aware and cautious of how we approach history and do so in this way. 
