## History and My Brain ##
   History in itself is a very interesting discipline. This may just be a bias view I have as a history major, but after delving into the readings we have analyzed throughout this course, I have come to the conclusion that I do not know as much about history as I thought I did, and what I thought I did know about history, is very minor in comparison to what we have learned and discussed in this class.  This isn’t necessarily a bad thing either, but I feel that because there are so many intricacies with history and the way we study it, is also the precise reason why it is so important. There are constantly so many things that we can learn from history and perspectives to view history from that I don’t think we will ever have a concrete definition of what history is. Why should we anyways? Why do we need to define what history is or isn’t? 
</p> A couple of semesters back, I took Dr. Caleb Richardson’s WWII and Reconstruction in Europe history course, and despite the subject matter being really interesting, the one thing that stuck out for me and still resonates with me is Dr. Richardson made a comment about how it does not matter what specific battle or event you are talking about when it comes to WWII history, you can have a very specific event in mind, but if you tell the history of that event from different perspectives, i.e. the Allied powers versus the Axis powers, the narrative of that specific event is going to be significantly different. The same idea can very much be applied to history as a discipline. No matter what decade, event, historical figure, etc. you are talking about, every single perspective you look at it through is going to provide a very different narrative for the same thing. 
  
## Is Postmodernism Rebellious History? ##
</p> As we learned in the readings and throughout the discussions we’ve had in class, postmodernism represented a new school of thought and completely went against the views of how history should be studied previously. So, with this in mind, does Postmodernism represent a historiographical paradigm shift? The short answer, at least from my perspective, is not necessarily. At the time, the ideas may have seemed new and “radical”, but from the perspective of someone who lives in the twentieth century where these “new” views in history are already a part of the foundations of a historian, it is hard to give an exact answer without having the bias of these elements and thoughts about history already existing and a part of our methodology. Adding further to this point, I don’t necessarily think that late twentieth-century ways of writing about history are a ‘rupture’ from previous historiographies. I think the foundations and ideologies were always there, it just took many different forms before coming into fruition. To think about it another way, the way that we think about and study cultural history for example is ever changing. Before, we didn’t have terms such as historical trauma as they apply to racialized minorities but because our ideas about history, gender, culture etc. are changing, so are the approaches we take to study them. Furthermore, they are going to keep changing generationally. So, the ideas are not necessarily going to be new, but more layers are inherently going to be added to it. 

## So What Now? ##
   When I first came into this class, I did so not knowing what exactly I got myself into. I came into this class knowing why I love history and what it is that I want to do with history for my perspective career, but I never really thought about the foundations of what makes history and how I, as a perspective future historian need to apply these methods to my work. To be very honest, I am still not sure what I will walk away with and being able to say with  100% certainty that I understand these concepts, but I can walk away from this class saying that my views on history have changed, and I am ready to continue to learn what history has to teach me as I get further and further into my field. 
