# Postmodernism

As historians coming out of the postmodern era, **how are we able to analyze the historiography and other ideas of the past without being jaded by the postmodern views instilled in us?** We move along asking very similar questions of what even is history and how does it benefit the world, yet the job to describe the benefits is spread into many other disciplines. The concrete answers to what is history, why does it exist, how does it benefit us do not exist as they are constantly changing, evolving, and being manipulated by each society year after year. In textbooks, in research papers, in general historical essays these questions are scarcely fully answered because of the subjectivity woven within an argument. Which makes me question how I have been looking at history for years.

In each of my history classes throughout my collegiate academic time have made me think about which voices we are predominantly hearing and how that affects how we interpret the history. Most challenging me to look beyond this idea of a historical truth merely what does that time want us to know and interpret. The language that is used both to teach the class in lecture and which source/textbooks are used also change the view of history seen. The emphasis on female voices, on minority voices, on the fact that this voice is predominantly white male because of the time period and location are present in every class I have taken before even reading these articles. Does this mean that the primary education I have received relies on postmodernism or does this mean that postmodernism is not as far off from a _traditional history_ as they wanted to be?

_My goal in history was not to find truth_, but **_to understand what happened and how it affects us now_**. The ideas of the past have not disappeared and some have barely even evolved over time. What is history, why is history, how is history are questions we bring up in our own class regularly. So to me postmodernism _doesn't feel like a paradigm shift_ but more _how historical thought evolved with the introduction to rationality_. Bringing in more prevalent voices during the 1960's makes sense given what movements were gaining traction and are still gaining traction. The fundamentals of documenting, describing, and analyzing history for our own good has not changed, by the questions we ask provoke more research into articles that were less popular.

**History is not for truth but a way to further an agenda** even if you feel you are writing objectively. I feel that postmodernism argues that subjectivity is inherent in writing merely because of historians writing voices and personal beliefs. Thesises are **_not_ argued because they are not believed**. They are argued because of each individuals interpretation of evidence. With the writing of a thesis being a way to show your own understanding of a subject, no matter how objectively you try to argue. Objectivity is the goal but subjectivity is the outcome based on your own personal identity.


