### Comments on Postmodernism

#### In Too Deep?
When I was young, *postmodern*, or, more obnoxiously, *po-mo*, was often used as a buzzword.  While the term has not dissappeared, I have heared it thrown around far less frequently.  Does this mean that postmodernism itself has faded into obscurity?  From what I understand about postmodernism, and that is VERY little, it has been so ingrained to the fabric of our society that only it's novelty has vanished.  This is a potential reason that nothing in our readings from Popkin and Lemon fundamentaly changed how I view history.  The questioning of objectivity, the use of "non-traditional" sources, social history, and increased inclusiveness in both what is studied, and who gets to study it, have always been a part of my understanding of history.  Even the focus on linguistics, and it's relationship with objective truth, or lack thereof, feels much less philosophical in the 21st century.  How the words we use have created the reality around us is a critical issue in both modern politics, and current cultural shifts.
#### New Opportunities 
The Popkin chapter (*From Herodotus to H-Net*, Chapter 6) provided a sense of optimism about the future of history.  Even though recent years have not been without conflict, that very conflict reveals a vibrancy in historical study.  If we had truly believed that the history of the past, both philosophically, and methodologically, was the best way to reveal the objective truth of the past, then history itself would devolve into a rote task.  Everytime someone questions the nature of current nature of historical study, whether it be it's Eurocentrism, it's ignoring of the lower classes, or it's overreliance on the creation of narratives, an entirely new field of study grows to fill in those gaps.  While this may never completely put an end to the traditional vision of a *man*, surrounded by books, crafting an *authoritative* account of some historical event, these differents voices, methods, and perspectives will ensure that the study of history will remain alive and relevent far into the future.
#### Obstacles
The Lemon chapter (*The Philosophy of History*, Chapter 14) makes me feel less optimistic, as he is consistantly questioning whether history's time as a legitimate field of study is over.  Despite this questioning, I found myself relatively unaffected by it.  This is possibly due to the fact that I felt the chapter lacked the substance and depth of previous ones, moreso than my rejection of the critiques of objectivity posited by postmodern thinkers.  White and Munslow's criqitue, and solutions to, the disconnect between constructed historical narratives and the past, represent concepts that have consistantly been floating around in my mind since I began to take history on as a serious field of study.  Some of Jenkins' critiques of "own-sakism" matched my own, especially that the purity of such a concept is potentially impossible.  I did not think of the political nature of "own-sakism", and the idea that even our concept of "pure history" protects the status quo, and is therefore inherently political, and subjective.
Even though all of this gives the modern historian many question on which to reflect, I do not believe this in anyway denotes the complete failure of the concept of history.  These are obstacles, which current historians must not only navigate, but converse with, in order to move the field forward.  
#### Too Much to Handle
If I am being honest, there are certain postmodern concepts which I understand (to a degree), but do not engage with.  While the inability to escape personal subjectivity, or the unrepairable disconnect between the past and the present are interesting philosophical concepts, it feels like an insurmountable task to incorporate them into how one's everyday life, whether that be personally or academically.  I probably just need to take more philosophy classes.
