# Chapter 14 

## Postmodernism... Does It Shift?

Throughout our semester readings of the Philosophy of History we are constantly going through different questions and outlooks on the time periods and the ways we define, record, and explain History. We discussed that postmodernism was this brand new school of thought that not only gave a whole new view on the ways we should be studying history compared to the past, but also it made many who study history question if it made a paradigm shift. On Monday I was still having a difficult time trying to answer that question for myself because I was looking for the one way and right answer since it was a True and False Quiz. But I really think that my perspective I don't believe it does. Since me and my fellow classmates are living in the twentieth century and these tools and resources have always been around us, it’s hard not to show some bias when answering that question. WE can also argue that there are many views that are already part of the foundation of History. The previous methods of history have not been forgotten but because I believe History is a living, breathing subject we are always going to have something new to look at, record, study, and may need new methods to answer those questions. 

## Methods on Recording and Documenting 

After reading through this chapter and thinking of all the previous readings by Lemon in Part 1 I find it hard to say that postmodern history has in sense 'ruptured' the way we write about history. Because as I stated earlier History is going to constantly change in the way we study and record due to the fact it’s a living, breathing subject. Because that’s the factor then you are left to say that it is a continuum of the historical changes happening. All the philosophers that we studied prior to this week were questioning and fine tuning the pervious works in order to create more sense, clarity, and perspectives on the world. There may 'and what is really the truth is there HAS been' many biases and sometimes a political agenda that applied to the methods in which we write and discuss history. Postmodernism not only paved the way for these new Historiographical Changes but created its own topic in history and how we are able to discuss what is the right and wrong way in defining history. Throughout all the classes I’ve taken at the university, the majority of my professors have enlightened and instilled that whatever time period you may be studying, or the events and historical figures and people we read about, every individual will have a different perspective. And because of that they will have a different narrative, and their own biases which not only help keep the writings on history alive but help build the continuum of history.  

## How Have I Changed Throughout These 10 Weeks?

When I was interested in taking this class the topics and class discussions we have been working on since coming back from fall break was what I believed we would talk about starting on day one. Since then my perspective and foundations on 'Why I Study History' have been rattled and reshaped throughout each week of class. We have dissected and gone over so many different topics brought by Lemon and Discussions that I do worry by the end of the semester I still won’t fully grasp the idea of Historiography and its concepts throughout history. But with the essays coming up and all the interesting topics we are about to share I can honestly say it will help me to continue to study this topic with more clarity as I move forward from this class. 
