#  Thoughts on post-modernism

## A wandering reaction to Derrida, and other first impressions

My first thoughts as I read chapter 14, and read about some of the thinkers that are at the heart of the Postmodern movement (Which, since I blew off the previous reading, was new territory for me), was that I agreed with many of the basic principles of their points. As something of a linguistics nerd, I was drawn to Derrida's ideas, and I agree whole-heartedly with his point that out language effects our understanding of reality. The classic example of this is in terms of linguistic anthropology is to examine how a given language’s words for color change how speakers of that language perceive colors. Derrida’s further argument that “language is not denotive of ‘reality’ as some objective phenomenon” (Lemon 363) thus seems to logically follow, though I might reword it, saying that language, due to its limitations as a human construct, and bound up by our own biases and perceptions (and indeed interjecting biases and limitations on perceptions by its own structures) **cannot** be denotive of reality. 

As some of my fellow students pointed out, it doesn’t seem like postmodernism is as heavily discussed in and of itself as much, but the many of the ideas it espoused are somewhat widespread. One might make the argument that postmodern ideas and thought processes themselves have, in wider society at least, become mere “’**signs**’ of particular lifestyles” (Lemon 367), in the ultimate inversion or subversion of Baudrillard’s work. I’m left to wonder how he would react to that possibility, either with a resigned acknowledgement of the inevitability of capitalist consumption, or with rage. 

## Alternative History, mostly Munslow

I think that the fact that Munslow's initial point, that we must engage with and examine representations of the past and that in doing so "'we can challenge the belief that there is a discoverable and accurately representable truthfulness in the reality of the past'" (372), is not revolutionary to me is a sign of how far postmodern ideas of how to do history have permeated the discipline. I think that I had already started, at least to some extent, to think about history certainly in a more analytically philosophical manner prior to this class. Not that this was all the result of my own brilliance. Some of my professors here at UNM make an effort to include historiographical elements in their more conventional history classes, though they do not explicitly say so. What this class has done is given me a deeper understanding and context for how to understand and engage with history.

Munslow’s writing about self-reflexive history, about the necessity of “’writing about a past withing a self-concious framework’” (374) recalls some of the discussions we had in class last week, about biases, and how historians should be aware not only of other’s but especially their own biases. Munslow is also careful to separate the past and history, and emphatically stats that history is just a “’representation of [the past]’” (375). I think this is a perfect way to merge the principles of postmodernism eithout getting into a paralyzing, philosophical rabbit hole. 

## Conclusions, and answering the last few questions in a hurry

I suppose the time has now come to consider the last few questions from the schedule, and return to that misbegotten quiz from last class. Does postmodernism represent a paradigm shift in history? Yes. But also no. As we discussed, a great deal depends on where you’re looking from, at what scale you’re thinking about it. At first glance, postmodernism would seem to be a fundamental change, in many fields, not just history. However, the more I think about it, the more it seems that the field of history has not been as altered as it might seem. Postmodern ideas have been absorbed, adapted, and adopted by historians, to the benefit of the field in my opinion, but though it has changed, when viewed through the lens of the late 20th and early 21st century it had not undergone a paradigm shift as such. That being said, I could see how a historiographer examine this period in years to come might reach a different conclusion. 
