# A Comment, consisting of several disparate musings on Chapter 8: *Speculative Philosophy of History During the Enlightenment*

Lemon asserts early in this chapter that Vico’s idea were left behind by the burgeoning enlightenment, in part because he “had already superseded fundamental tenets of ‘Enlightenment’ thought before that movement began” (168). Perhaps this is more of a question than I comment, but I wonder what exactly led Lemon to this conclusion. Was Vico disparaged by his contemporaries and his immediate sucessors in the 18th century? Or is it that he was simply less well known in his own time than he deserved? 

Lemon states that during the 18th century, in speculative philosophy of History as in other branches of thought, “the Enlightenment believed above all in *progress*… seeing their own time as… the Age of Reason” (170-171). I would posit that this attitude has never entirely left us, at least to one degree. Lemon’s turn of phrase describing enlightenment thinkers, that they had “a critical (but also self-congratulatory) posture towards the present” (170) seems just as applicable to the 21st century as it does to the 18th. 

Into this morass of self-importance, Rousseau comes crashing, withholding none of the contempt he felt for the “artificialities of ‘civilized’ society”, while extolling the “straightforward virtues of ‘natural’ man uncorrupted by the lure of luxury and sophistication” (Lemon 172). Rousseau’s philosophy of history, then, does not include ‘progress’ as its main theme, though even he acknowledges “the obvious fact of ‘progress’ in the arts, sciences, and technology” (180). Rather, his main idea is “the nature of man’s consciousness of being in the world” (180). Rather than a pre-ordained story of mastery over the earth, Rousseau sees the course of human history as being driven by the need to survive and to some extent by luck, which nevertheless gave rise to society as he knew it. 
