## **Comment on Chapter 8: *Speculative Philosophy of History During the Enlightenment* PoH 168-200**

### **Vico and the Enlightenment**

Lemon describes how the ideas formed during the age of the enlightenment did not break new ground; rather, much credit should be due to Vico and his undermined intellectual contributions of new thought and perception of the natural world. I found it interesting how Lemon suggests “that the ‘Enlightenment’ is either rather a misleading periodization of European thought (because its essentials belong to an earlier century), or at least that those who identified themselves as promulgating the movement were under the illusion of breaking new ground” (168). An example of the movements progressive ideas was the formed during the protestant reformation and shortly after. New religions and religious tolerance sprang about Europe and people began to question religious doctrine which otherwise would have been considered blasphemy. It seems to me that this is the thesis of Lemons chapter and the following subtitles all relate to how the ideas ‘discovered’ during the time of the enlightenment, should in fact be largely contributed to Vico and his ideas of empiricism, rationalism, and reason. However, the religious criticism was already an idea to which Vico has expressed. Nevertheless, the enlightenment did introduce an “intense focus on the character of society rather than on the abstractions of philosophy” (170).  

### **Rousseau and the Noble Savages**

I found the works of Rousseau to be very interesting. In essence, when attempting to answer the question, “Has the restoration of the arts and sciences had a purifying effect upon morals? (172). He explains how “it has added nothing to our real happiness… it has corrupted our morals” (172). Lemon, goes on to further describe Rousseau’s explanation by describing the natural man. The natural man had a “pristine ignorance which enabled their ‘natural’ virtues of straightforwardness and honesty to flourish… the transparency and authenticity of human beings ‘prevented their having many vice’” (174). With this existence of man  in the natural world, he likewise shares the physical virtues of other animals such as “robustness, keen senses, health, and simplicity of purpose. But just as domesticated animals lose these virtues, so does man as he begins to ‘advance’ from his natural state” (175). It is then, the ‘advancement’ out of the natural world and into the ‘civilizations’ that corrupts the morals of man. Lemon suggests that the use of primitive tools (allowing for the establishment of permanent dwellings) and  the invention of metallurgy and agriculture caused the “first distinctions of vanity and contempt and shame and envy” (177). It caused the leaving of man’s independence and caused societal dependence; a closing of what is known as ‘the Golden Age’. The shift towards societal dependence caused a corruption in the morality man, no longer was there a natural man with virtues of straightforwardness and honesty, but now the corruption of man who’s focus was now on the obsession of impressing others with ‘worldly’ things. This too followed the society as well, “The ‘ancient Roman simplicity’ succumbed to ‘pomp and magnificence’ (173). 
