### Questions for _Speculative Philosophy of History During the Enlightenment_ 

1. In his _Discourse on the Origins of Inequality_, **Rousseau** reconstructs the history of humankind, from the days of the 'noble savage' to the corrupted present.  While his narractive lacks historical evidence, Lemon points out that several passages accurately predict future politcal trends (p.179).  As much history up until this time has been in the service of such predictive goals, does this mean there is historical truth to be found in Rousseau's method?

2. In many ways, Rousseau's _The Social Contract_ contradicts the historical thought periously laid out in _Discouse on the Origins of Inequality_, offering a much brighter potential outcome for civil society.  How do we interpret this change?  Is there any way to reconcile the two works, and create a clearer view of Rousseau's philosophy of history?

3. **Condorcet** saw the past and future as 'ten stages of history' of which humankind is currently in stage nine.  Rousseau writes of a 'golden age' of man, which took place early the shift between nature and society.  Both of these concepts have many historical precedents.  In what ways do they break away from this mold, and how to they fail to do so?  What do you make of the power of 'Ages' throughout historical thought?

4. The French Revolution looms large in the later portion of this chapter.  Condorcet wrote _Sketch for a Historical Picture of the Progress of the Human Mind_ while in hiding, after he was denounced as an enemy of the Republic, and the relation between the Revolution and _Reflections on the Revolution in France_ by **Edmund Burke** is self explanatory.  We have spent a lot of time in class talking about how the history of thought has impacted historiography, but what about the tangible occurrences that surround the historian?  Did living in the midst of the Revolution impact Condorcet's philosophy of history?  Did witnessing history unfold in the present change Burke's views on society more than any inhereted knowledge?
