## So what exactly is Post-modernism?
Lemon presents the onset of post-modernist thought as a threat to the discipline of history as a whole. Despite his foreboding introduction, he presents multiple interpretations not only of the post-modern influence on history but suggestions for what the future of history might or should look like considering the hefty post-modern implication that “there is no ultimate or fixed ‘reality’, there are no transcendental truths, there is no authoritative projection into the future, nor an ‘objective’ history from which to derive it” (360). I feel this represents a definite shift in historiographical thinking. Lemon’s comparison of Renaissance Humanism as a movement helped me to understand the depth and weight of this post-modern shift. One fundamental difference between the two is that the latter sees the human as a subject who encounters objects in the world around them and then uses rationality to understand those objects to find an objective truth. Contrastingly, post-modern thinkers reject the “notion of ‘the subject’ as the detached understander of ‘the object’” (360). Furthermore, post-modernists argue that objectivity is impossible because the past is created by humans in the present who use language (which is culturally determined) and thus history is just a representation of the past and not the past. 
## Who is saying what?
Lemon highlights a few founding post-modern thinkers including Derrida, Foucault, Lyotard, and Baudrillard as well as two contemporary post-modernists: Jenkins and Munslow.  

**Derrida**—language is “an expression of consciousness” defined by human contexts and therefore “language is not denotive of reality as some objective phenomenon” (363).

**Foucault**—built on linguistic turn in an historical context. “Knowledge which is expressed in various discourses is a form of power” (364). 

**Lyotard**—rejected Marxist background for its fallacious ‘metanarrative’ and other metanarratives for their attempts at universal and object representations of reality. 

**Braudrillard**—suggests the idea of ‘hyperreality’ as a product of post-modern consumerism, “a world of groundless, endlessly reproducible significations which reproduce an unreal world” (368). This seems especially fitting in contemporary times as we are constantly bombarded with fake news and advertising through mediums of technology and consumerism. 

**Munslow**—argued that “instead of beginning with the past we should start with its representation” (372). He also advocated for a shift from empiricism (which he saw as pointless because he felt that objectivity is impossible) to one that embraces a ‘figurative’ narrative “through a poetic act” (373). One important critique that Lemon makes regards to the dangerous shift Munslow’s theories might inspire, namely that we would spend more time talking about historical writing than doing historical writing. What do we think of Munslow’s definition of history as more “the study of information produced by historians than the study of change over time” (384)?

**Jenkins**—appears more controversial because he rejects the possibility of ever doing history for its own sake based on the foundation that all history is ideological and therefore forever influences how and why we do it. Jenkins logic is sound and he suggests that “the best we can do is alert the readers to the position we are interpreting from” (379). This got me to thinking—**do historians have a moral obligation to alert reader/consumers of their narratives of their own biases? By doing so, do historians effectively let themselves off the hook?** I did appreciate some of Jenkins suggestions for alternative methods of historical production including ‘descriptive vignettes and dramatizations of alternative reminiscences’, but I wonder, **does that still constitute history?** 

Other than the alternative method suggested by Jenkins above, another shift in post-modern historiographical methodology involves the rejection of empiricism, although I am uncertain how this would appear in practice. Overall, post-modernism makes me confused not only about history generally but my role as a student and consumer of it. I’ll definitely have to do some more soul searching on this one. 

Lemon concludes with this idea of the “workability” of language and reality. Again I found his concrete examples helpful (the tree description). He argues that the question for us should not be “is the story of the tree true and real” but instead “does the story about the tree work for us”? I think this is one way to move forward in the creation of history. Do the stories we create work for us? In what ways do they not? **How can a more reflexive process develop our narratives in a way that works better for us?** When that idea fails us maybe we can just do as some traditionalists have suggested and just wait for the next historiographical paradigm shift to redefine our work again (371). 
 
