### 3 Point Summary of *Analytic Philosophy of History*

#### Analytic Philosophy of History and Historical Methodology
- **Historical methodology** is the _nuts and bolts_ of history, focusing on the practical work involved in historical study.  **Analytic philosophy of history** focuses on more theoretical aspects of the study of history, such as 'does the discipline of history make sense?.' (p.281-282)
#### Theorerical vs. Practical Studies
- **Theoretical** historical studies 'observe' subjects in disinterested manner, only seeking to understand the subject better.  **Practical** studies are motivated by something other than pure understanding, often seekng specific answers through history, and thus prone to **partiality**. (p.286-288)
#### 'History Proper'
- As history is a theoretical discipline, self-critique is intergral to historical study.  Both **analytic philosophers of history** and historians themselves are required to reflect on the flaws an potential improvements of the study of history, both in methodology and in theory. (p.288-289)

### Comments on *The 'What is History?' Debate*
#### Laying the Groundwork
First, I would like to propose this reading come earlier in the semester, even if we do not follow up on it until the midway point.  This would be especially helpful in making the subject more approachable to students already involved in historical study, though it will probably not win any new converts to the discipline.  While this chapter can, in many ways, be just as discouraging as earlier ones, the questions it poses, about the uniqueness of history as a discipline, the requirement of change to validate study, the truthworthiness of sources, the potential inevitability of **covering-laws**, and how language affects our understanding, are more engaging to students who have studied history, but have not been critical of that study.  Many of these topics have already been discussed in class, but they can feel more daunting, or inpenetrable, when being talked about along with the ideas of Hegel or Marx.
#### Room for Optimism?
While much of what we have been studying can cause a student to question their understanding of history, and potentially forever shatter their ideas about _historical truth_, it was a reassuring to see Lemon spend so much time discussing the importance and value of **narrative history**.  I would imagine that most people who later engage in serious historical study received their first taste of history through narrative.  As we delve deeper into the field, narrative often gives way to **analytic** and **comparative** methods of history.  While facisnating in their own right, these methods lack the magical power of a good story.  Understanding why narrative is such a useful tool in the field of history allows us to better contextualize, and potentially expand, the intial allure that first brought us to the past.  
#### Free-For-All
Another aspect of this chapter that I found reassuring, was the discussion of what is worth studying in history.  As someone who tends to be more interested in the historical fringes, it was a relief to see that, according to Lemon at least, my straying from the historical "highway" does not immediately exclude me from the field.  As Lemon points out, we often focus historical research on what we have the documentation for, hence the long standing focus on politics.  Now that more and more of the world is accessible to historians through digital means, our options for study will only increase.
