1.)	Speculative and analytical history are closely intertwined to each other but still differ in that the “speculative branch treats history as past events and circumstances” whereas “analytic philosophy of history enquires into history as the discipline which discovers and understands the past” (281). 

2.)	Historical methodology vs. philosophy of history – As used in the analogy of house-building, a historical methodologist will study the practical aspects of the house (critically study the problems involved, examine the techniques used, and inspect the materials that are going to be used. The methodologist will be operating within the normal parameters of existing house building methods. The analytical philosopher, however, will take a different approach. Rather than instinctively drawing from previous methods of house plans, the analytical philosopher will question what “is” a house, and what purpose does a house serve? Is there alternative ways that a house structure can serve a better function? These two methods of approaching house building apply to history in studying history as a discipline by a practical approach (historical methodological) or theoretical (analytical history). (283)

3.)	Observation – what we choose to examine often leaves areas that are purposefully neglected. “A practically motivated study of something is partial, both in the sense that it does not study the material in fully, but only those ‘parts’ relevant to its objective” (287). This partial understanding although not false leaves a distorted (and potentially dangerous) view. A theoretical viewpoint on the other hand is also partial because the observer “does not take sides in his thinking” (287). 
