History is important at multiple scales. Whether on a personal or universal level, it provides individuals and societies context for who they are and how they got to be so. Not only does it validate what happened (think the Holocaust, your fifth birthday, or the invention of the light bulb), but it also provides a framework for interpreting the significance of those events. History also provides a “collective sense of identity” (Popkin 17). That shared memory influences cultural norms and creates meaning for individuals within diverse cultures. Popkin also argues that history reminds “those in power today that they will some day have to face the judgement of posterity”. In this way, historians can hold leaders accountable for their decisions and provide a check to unbridled power. History also offers a method of predicting the future based on understanding events that led up to the present. This role has become especially important in the last couple of centuries as religions around the world have lost much of the power they once held of human decision making. History, especially historiography provides a methodology for processing the past. It gives a step by step framework for having conversations about how and why events unfolded. This methodology is especially helpful in a philosophical sense when we don’t have other scientific tools for determining meaning, like the fields of biology or engineering.  
Outside of academia, history is important for understanding ourselves as individuals, for finding meaning in our own lives. What events led me to where I am today? How did my upbringing shape who I am? Why is that important? How did those moments influence the decisions I will make in the future. Speculative history, in particular helps us recognize patterns, both on a personal and a cultural level. Furthermore, the methods of historiography are helpful in analyzing any subject matter—researching, writing, analyzing materials (both primary and secondary sources), and synthesizing meaning are all skills learned through the practice of history that can be applied to any field. Finally, historiography looks at how certain fields (and our perspectives on them) have changed over time. As a priest, doctor, teacher, stone mason, or parent, we can use historiography to look at the arc of change in each of the roles. Knowing the past helps us give meaning to the present and insight into the future.  

