I found it interesting that in the first section of Lemon’s Philosophy of History he was constantly playing devil’s advocate with himself by offering two different thought processes that were on the extreme ends of the spectrum. When looking at the question of what is History for I think that he gave the two polar opposites on page 10. When on one end you have sticking to the facts being impossible of proof. He then talks about another perspective where history is used as an exercise in reflection to make sense of one’s life. With Lemon’s words in the background I would say history falls on the scale of meaning nothing to meaning everything. Looking on this spectrum I found it interesting how Lemon talked about the different purposes for history as reflection. One reason (pg 10) is to look for patterns as a way to make sense of the past. History, or at least what we know, doesn’t always happen in a straight line. Factor A plus B doesn’t always result in event C, there is no formula to plug in past events to know is going to happen next. That brings up another reason for reflection that Lemon brings up and that is to attempt to predict the future (pg 12). With that being said I do think there is some value at looking at the past to help ourselves out in future. Failing to look at past mistakes and to continue to make similar mistakes is poor leadership. It can also mean that looking at past successes and try to replicate those results with the process is equally ignorant. When looking at the past you have to look at it through a lens of the different time periods and how things have changed. What knowledge we have now and how that shines a different light on events of the past. That brings up Lemon’s last reason for reflection of how people “come to terms with the present thought gaining a perspective on how one has got there.” (Lemon, pg 11) I think every person, at some point in their life, has stopped for a second and asked the question, how did I end up here? From working in prison I can tell you I have heard most inmates reflect back on the actions or events that lead them to be locked up. The most interesting part of their reflections is that most of them find a way to take the blame off of them and transfer the blame to someone else. Lemon talks about that on page 7, at the start of chapter 1, how moral shortcoming is usually left off of a reflection of one’s history.  No matter the classified reason for someone to study the past it ultimately comes down to a need for understanding. I thought of quote from Lemon’s book and it really made me think of every situation and how my instincts are to get a place where I can relate the information into a way that can understand the best. “Human beings are of necessity perpetually, instinctively engaged in the practice of understanding.” (Lemon, pg 11)

