When the question “What is History” is asked I agree with Lemon when he describes history as a “Material or ‘object’ to be studied” (7). Thinking about when I am studying History there is always an event that we focus on or we have an area of expertise. We are taught History in school because it is important to understand the future, or in other words "history always repeats itself". When we were small in school, we were often told to read the pages of a text book, and as children we did not question the book. It's engraved in our minds from such a small age that we can't really question history because that’s just how it happened. In the reading “Philosophy of History” Lemon says that the Philosophy of History “tries to conduct some kind of ‘universal history’ of the world…” (1), because people are constantly looking for meaning.   Lemon described speculative philosophy as an “impulse to make sense of history, to find meaning in it, or at least some intelligible pattern” (9). I agree with him, but I don’t find this method of study “audacious” (9) because in a way patterns and history are repeated. Events that happen in the past constantly connect that make another event happen. Of course, we can never predict what happens in the future, but we can get a pretty good idea about what can happen next. 
Before my senior year of college, I never really heard of Historiography, but even signing up for the class I still was not sure what it was. After the first reading “What is Historiography?” it made me think of Historiography is more like analyzing and questioning everything we learned in history. In the opening paragraph of “What is Historiography?” the author questions history because it could have an agenda and that it may be distorted based on who was writing the history, or even that interpretations of history could have changed through time (2).  He wants us, as future historians, to keep that in mind and truly question it. Philosophy of History and Historiography both look at history rationally. Where as Philosophy of history is studying it to see meaning, and historiography looks at it to question it and make sure that the history written down is the actual event and gives an unbiased approach to it. 
