This chapter really made clear the distinctions between what makes a discipline academically recognized and what does not. Although referring to history, the principle of asking “what?” rather than “why?” is a standing trademark of what is considered academia. Speculation is often not valued for the perspective it offers to the same community. This is interesting since I believe that it is very difficult for any human to ask one question without the other, “why?” without “what?” or “how?” and so on. I understand why speculation is minimized so greatly in academia, to sequester the spread of misinformation, opinions of facts rather than facts themselves, and, even in some circumstances, panic. Speculation of the past and what it means for the future, or if there even is a future, could quickly drift further and further away from rational thought and reasoning into emotions, which are certainly not valued in academia or our society in general. However, to attempt to separate the perspectives entirely, speculative and analytical, seems not only impractical, as humans will always ask “why?”, but also seems to narrow the perspective 180 degrees in the other direction. In order to avoid overwhelmingly emotional and opinionated perspectives, those viewpoints are disregarded entirely. As with most things, I feel that a balance between the two would be a healthier reaction. But, this would rely heavily on careful writers and informed readers, which further complicates how to actually make this possible.
As an anthropology major, I found it interesting because as Lemon described speculative history I just kept thinking, “That’s anthropology.” Anthropology is centered on asking the “whys” in history, trying to “make sense” of the past, and understanding some greater or universal “story” that is unfolding. I wonder if these restrictions in the history of what constitutes valid historical thought actually opened the doorway for other disciplines, which are perhaps freer in form, to develop. I am also curious to see if that happens more so in the future. As history, as a discipline, began in attempts of trying to understand the moral lessons which can be derived from the past, I wonder if the increasing secularism of academic society will change how history is studied and viewed by other disciplines. If historians are less and less focused on the original intent of history, to learn from and predict a future from the past, then how history is read, learned, and taught could be changing too. 
