To try and answer the question 'what is history for' in a short, 400-500 word response, seems somewhat futile given the subject of Lemon’s first chapter in Philosophy of History. Lemon argues that this question is in itself speculative and open to endless interpretation. I don’t fully agree that there is an overall trend to history, or that we can shape or predict the future by learning what we gather from the past. But I do tend to connect more with the concept of cycles, and potentially even periods, mentioned on page 9 of this chapter. A general “civilising effect” Lemon mentions also finds its purpose here, and I am of the opinion that we can learn from our collective mistakes in history, even if that means contextualizing the past to make more sense in the present. It can also have a point in itself; humans have a desire to know, to learn and expand further. This pursuit of knowledge is valuable own its own, and does not always call for a practical reason, though our society does tend to encourage one. To differentiate between historiography and speculative philosophy is kind of like trying to tell the difference between sandals and flip-flops. I feel the difference between the two is really that historiography is just a broader term than speculative philosophy of history, and encompasses the latter as a part of its own definition. Speculative philosophy of history seeks to find “a grander ‘design’ or ‘significance’ to history”, to understand the reasons we study history in the first place, and to find the use of its study in society. Historiography also includes the history of historical inquiry. This is to also understand the methodology of historians throughout time, and examine their biases, motivations, and sources, among several other definitions. Historiography has extreme use outside of an academic context, because the more academics employ it, the more information generally disseminated to the public is (hopefully) somewhat accurate. It also encourages those who have left academia, and entered the world at large, to investigate what they consume critically instead of at first glance. In its own way, too, historiography makes up part of our collective story, attempting to provide something closer to ‘truth’, as unattainable as that goal might be. Truth, like perfection, is impossible to reach, but sets a bar to try and reach. Historiography is another tool we can all use to try and reach that bar, even outside of academia.
