The first thirteen pages of “The Philosophy of History” highlights an integral question historians must ask themselves: What is the point of history? Personally, I believe Lemon makes a strong argument against the “Post-modernists” and the empirically based philosophers who argue that the study of history is essentially pointless as there is no such thing as unbiased truth or that historians should “stick to the facts” (10). Lemon comments on our (humankind) ability to anthropomorphize the grand “plan” of the universe – as the universe follows no such plan- but I would argue that there is nothing wrong with crafting our own meaning about life. I believe philosophers are technically right in their logical deductions about life and history’s role in life being meaningless. But as humans it’s nearly impossible to erase our lens of “exceptionalism” and “unique” from finding meaning in our role in this world and as such, we must accept the speculative philosophy of history. There are many reasons Lemon lists as to why speculative history is interesting as a discipline. I found humankind’s desire to predict the future (12), an especially compelling one because it highlights the idea that not only have, we found meaning through our past but that we have also identified a pattern from which we can predict future events. Degrees in humanities-based fields are often undervalued compared to degrees in STEM-based fields but no other field can make definitive statements and predictions about the progression of humanity without acknowledging history’s patterns. Lastly, Lemon briefly states the use of the study of history as means to evoke a “civilizing” effect (13) on humanity. I believe this point is weak since Lemon does not elaborate or explain further. One can not presume to know exactly what Lemon meet pertaining to this point however I saw connections between this statement and museum studies. For example, there is a general understanding of the “museum effect” that states that by illuminating a culture's collective memory we can bring stability to communities, i.e civilization as Lemon writes ([For more, check out page 12](http://www.archimuse.com/publishing/ichim03/095C.pdf)). More information about the power of collective memory would be need to fully express this thought, which in that case, an audience can truly see how the study of history can easily cross into many disciplines such as psychology and sociology. Overall, I agree with Lemon and his argument about the importance and necessity of speculative history.
