When reviewing and analyzing both readings the authors are mainly focusing on the definition of Historiography and how we as the readers define and interpret history. In our class discussion on Wednesday we looked at how we define historiography. One definition that stood out by Professor Gibbs was the idea on “how do we make sense of a bunch of words”? We as historians are tasked to read and analyses works, and not take those words and information as the correct answers were looking for, but to ask more question to further make sense and build on these “bunch of words”. Also, we spent a great deal of time on how Peer Review has its own limitations on how we define and present history to the public and future research. How these groups use their time to review a topic in history makes us wonder what you think they are leaving out in the way they presented the topics and by doing that is it dangerous to the way we look at History and define Historiography. In “The Philosophy of History” book Lemon talks about how there are two different philosophies of history, one being the speculative philosophy and the other the analytic philosophy. He analyses Speculative in this chapter while saying it, “consists of thinking about the actual ‘content’ of (human) history to see in what sense ‘it as a whole’ is explicit or meaningful.” (p. 8) Studying the difference between the philosophy of history and historiography goes with asking the questions on how we make sense of history. If we are to look at the speculative philosophy, we are trying to analyses and answer what is “the meaning of life”. Lemon goes further with this by saying history is not just reading and hoping the answers fall into place, we as historians and students must question all the facts and analysis given in order to separate the philosophy of history from historiography. As restating from my top argument on how we define history, Historiography is very useful outside of the academy because we are not defining history in past but trying to shape and better the present aspects in order to better the future. This would revolve around politics and economics. We may study events like the Great Depression, or World War II in the academia and colleges but we take information, apply what we have studied in hopes to change events and prevent future damage. It revolves around the decisions we make for the future, and begins with asking the questions like “what is the meaning of life”?
