Dustin Newsom
Historiography
dnewsom24@unm.edu
Speculative Philosophy of History
Two branches of the philosophy of history speculative/object, and analytic/discipline. I think they both can be used together to help form an informed framework of a universal history. Voltaire coined the term “philosophy of history” having lived during the age of Enlightenment, he began the foundational work for the historiographers school of thought. Not so much looking for patterns, but to extract morally useful lessons from history. Just as it stated in our first reading, that the point of studying history is not to predict the future, but employ aspects of the past that served as positive progress. Having a rational outlook on history, and avoiding superstition and religion were two aspects that Voltaire eliminated in his attempts to make sense of the past, present, and future. 
Think rationally, peoples irrational fear of the word philosophy only hinders their chances at understanding of how the past affects the present. Philosophy also meaning when approaching problems/questions that have no existing rules we have to think rationally to solve them. In our individual daily routines, if we did not employ rational thought, we would be setting ourselves up for failure. So if we do not use rational thought on top of the “factual” information we have attained, we are contributing to the future failures of others. 
The author asks, is there such thing as world history? I would have to say yes, there is world history, due to the fact that humans have been recording historical events since the days of Mesopotamia. However, the narratives vastly differ dependent on the time period, topic, and geographic location. He then asks, is the study of history fully valid? I would have to say that to study history is fully valid, but, the validity of the history we study is tangible. Seeking knowledge and understanding through reason is the approach the author suggests we take in order to triangulate truths from commonalities in separately biased sources. In other words, compare primary sourced documents from opposing historians on the same topic to locate probable truths to link us to the past. 
History/philosophy is the only academic discipline that doesn’t have a special method, known paths or rules to ensure accuracy. There isn’t a mathematical formula, or scientific method for historians to plug in to correlate history with the past. However, the speculative philosophy of history has sufficient guidelines to follow in order to obtain an informed perspective. 
M.C. Lemon then asks, is there a universal story of history? I would have to say, not yet. Possibly one day through joint-efforts, and technological advances, we may be able to have a good idea of what actually happened and when. Does it have an ending? If so, is it good, bad, or ordinary? Or does it repeat itself in cycles? I think that it is a combination of all the previous, with good, bad, and ordinary occurring simultaneously, along with cycles/patterns being revealed. 
Lemon also asked, is the course of history under human control or out of our control? This question insinuates a grand Creator, because if humans do not control history, then who does, God? Can we learn anything form the patterns of history or is every situation unique? I believe that we can extrapolate lessons, and incorporate them to guide us as humans to positive progress. 
Posing numerous questions that can be answered anyway the reader wishes to as long as they have a rational reason for believing in this manner is the way M.C. Lemon wrote this first chapter. All the while, he employed suggestive use towards implementing speculative philosophy techniques when dealing with history. While I did not mention all of the questions from the chapter, I answered the ones that stood out to me. This type of thought is mind opening to say the least. 

