What I took to be the main thrust of this introductory chapter was the question which Lemon raises, and then answers in the last two pages: “Is speculative philosophy of history worthwhile?” In examining this question, I would go even further than Lemon does. Not only is speculative philosophy of history worthwhile, but I think that it is inevitable. As Lemon points out, we are a self-conscious species, that is to say, we try to construct meanings, both for ourselves and for the world around us. Therefore, just as we try to create meaning for every other aspect of our lives and existences, we must also try and create meaning to past events, history as the object of study, as Lemon puts it. Whether or not the pursuit is deemed “worthwhile” by academics, though for my part I agree with Lemon that it is, becomes almost irrelevant. Speculative philosophy of history can be seen as an extension or broadening of our questioning about our own individual meanings and lives. According to Lemon, even those who contend that there is no larger meaning to life, whether in an individual or a societal sense, must engage in speculating philosophy of history to properly prove their point. But by engaging in this speculation, we may place ourselves, our personal lives and struggles, into a larger context. To this end, this line of reasoning has often been utilized to make people feel like they are part of a larger historical pattern or progression. As Lemon also points out, another use, so to speak, of speculative philosophy of history is also used to “predict the future” (12), presumably to avoid the dire warning of George Santayana that those who do not study history are doomed to repeat it. One point that struck me was when Lemon raised the question of whether those historians who focus narrowly on the minutiae of a specific subject, to the exclusion of all else, might be missing the point. Here, Lemon turns the argument which is the crux of this chapter on its head. Is it worthwhile to examine things so closely that you miss, or ignore, the bigger picture? I would argue that there is a place in the community of historians for both, and indeed the two camps of historians, those who engage in speculative philosophy of history, and those who not only do not, collaborate with and depend upon one another, often more than either side may think. I think that the pursuit of speculative philosophy of history, and historiography generally, often relies upon the minutiae that is unearthed by those who reject it, and those unearthers of minutiae themselves rely on historiographers to give their work deeper meaning. 
