In Philosophy of History, Lemons argues that there are only two strategies for historians: speculative and analytical. Speculative being defined simply as "constructing a universal history". Analytical being defined simply as "examining the validity of the presuppositions which underly the thinking and writings of historians". Philosophy being defined simply as "thoughtful knowledge" or "thinking rationally". These three defintions set up a kind of thesis that Lemon's is trying to defend. Historians are either speculative or analytical yet either way they deal in philosophy despite how scary it may seem. Philosphy is found in every subject, which I feel is true having taken higher level math, history, and art classes but having also discussed higher level sciences with people who have taken them. At a certain point in learning there is no longer a set formula or sunject matter only how we begin to interpret and continue the thinking of what is being presented to us each day. The questions aske on page 9 spark personal answer for myself. History is not a grand unfolding of some larger story but more a collection of smaller stories that help others understand where they are today. The end of history comes with the end of documentation, culture, and general thought. There is no way to predict the end of history, how it will happen or when. In order to understand the trends of the past and the trends of the present, historians live in the past connecting dots and triangulating misconceptions. Yet biases are rampant from both the historian and the subject matter being studied. How can we compartamentalize the ideas of a time period when they creep back in hundreds of years later? Is the search through the past similar to the search in relgion? An udnerstanding of how life began, should be lived, and where things come from. Is history not a science in and of itself with structre, observations, and hypothesises? History has changed overtime. The history of any time period done fifty years ago difffers from that of the history being looked at now. More documents are being found or brought to a knew light or looked at from a new perspective. Speculative history can be used to find a meaning of life, the philosophy of a moral individual, and the continuity some people need to thrive mentally. Yet what happens when historians begin to add in those new perspectives changing the continuity, causing a disruptions? These other viewpoints both cause disruption and add value to other life, yet how do we ignore them constantly still? These questions were merely sparked by the ideas that a culmulative history is possible, which is a utopian viewpoint. Yes we need to hear them, yes we need to study them, but we also need to disrupt the lifes of many to engage in them and go beyond just the object of history and those ideas that there is one overarching story in the many stories of history.
