History is a deeply complex, messy, and contentious discipline that involves constant argument amongst many scholars (past and present) who observe the changes of human behavior over time and attempt to accurately* interpret a collected body of knowledge to determine the significance and relevance of the past. Furthermore, it is loosely subcategorized into various approaches of study according to research design that either supports/contradicts other perspectives; these subcategories include political, diplomatic, military, economic, social, cultural, new social, micro, and scientific history. Although various approaches aim to seek answers, the holistic study of history provides us with demonstrated universal rules of human life and the value of observing unintended consequences (16). Some historians agree that we may observe the past unintended consequences of human behavior to confidently predict and prevent atrocities from reoccurring while other historians believe that every situation poses unique circumstances which does not seem to support clear guidelines of predictive course of action (16). I personally disagree with the latter and think that there are plenty of repeatable and identifiable patterns that we can learn from to avoid catastrophe. Although the study of history provides us with valuable information, it poses a major flaw. That is, because history does not provide us with complete knowledge of the past, we must question the manner in we form and come to accept what is factual truth. If our goal is to be as objective as possible, we must shy away from speculation, and recognizing/avoid accepting inaccuracies. An example of this comes from what we discussed in lecture earlier, we often watch movies, T.V. shows, and play video games that depict “the past” differently than what is factual past. These nuances may cause false presumptions of historical truths and may also cause unintended consequences such as bias. Because the study of history poses missing gaps, holes, and inconsistencies, the study of historiography attempts to reconcile these conflicting differences by critical thinking about how these interpretations are consolidated to form a basis of truth (4). It is not merely the attempt to seek out truth, but rather to challenge the validity of our own methods of how we arrived to truth. Historiography not only provides the student with knowledge and ability to think critically and objectivity across various topics, but to understand and learn the skills and process of how the basis of knowledge is formed (6). The learned skills of historiography also benefits the student through his/her lifetime outside of academia; it allows for better educated decisions involving political decisions, legal testimonies, media messages, and identifying pitfalls in advertisements (10). Being a critic and skeptic of historical information as well as analyzing the process of how knowledge is passed down as truth requires critical thinking and deciphering skills but allows for better accuracy, research, and knowledge.
