In both "The Philosophy of History" and "What is Historiography," the author's questions the reader about what is historiography and how it should be taught in schools. As a class, we had defined that historiography can mean multiple things, but we had never gone over when it should be taught in schools. On page 1 Lemon expresses his concerns about speculative philosophy of history, "which, as we shall see, tries to construct some ' universal history' of the world, complaints have arisen that modern historians have lost that sense of the grand sweep of time" (pg.1). Though this quote certainly does not resonate with everyone, it did for me as man times I had to ask myself what else was going on in the world when I was only taught about the western world during a specific time frame. Before this class, I had never heard of the word historiography, but my teachers believed that I had. My first ever memorable experience of transferring to this university was nearly failing a class because I was never taught to question my sources, the information, and the motives behind the author. From that experience, I can only agree with Popkin. Students need to be exposed to historiography much sooner then just as a rite of passage class onto graduate school. Though I don't believe that students should be thrown into a historiography class as soon as they start their college studies, slowly teaching fundamental concepts to students would be beneficial in the long run. As Lemon explains, history is more complicated than just reading about the past and taking facts as the complete truth. Instead, students should learn to question the facts that are presented and the sources that are being used. Students should also be taught in a way that doesn't ruin their reasoning for being interested in history by visually explaining concepts of historiography, same as museums, games, and movies. It's essential for people to not only be interested in history but also to study it. Through history, we can see some of the defining moments of society even though there is no strict timeline of events. These defining moments can help explain the surface reasons for outcomes of events are wars while possibly informing us of the rise and fall of nations, which can help us make better decisions in the future. 
