The philosophy of history can be described as diving deeper into history than what academia usually allows. In academia, there is a focus a set rule or rules that as we discussed in class shape History and its study unintentionally and intentionally. In the reading Lemon talks about the roles that things like identity play in history as a whole. In academia, the focus is not put on the identity of groups and the role history played but, on what happened to this group or how they came to the place where there are now. The philosophy of history is looking at the unintended consequences of history and what it says about things like identity or human nature. Historiography is studying the techniques used when writing down, translating, and sharing specific histories. The example used in class was the United States and its history and how that ties into creating and shaping identity as well as nationalism. Outside of the academy, Historiography is used as a way to analyze techniques used in areas of study even though it is not history. Looking at the techniques used in different fields and the restraints and the possible freedoms that techniques and practices create over time can further help academia as a whole.
Speculative history calls into question our history and what it says about people both on an individual level and a group level. Voltaire looked at history and used it to show aspects of European society needed to change as they had stayed the same through much of hsitory. Speculative history is not for everyone as Lemon points out some historians see it as a waste of time and think this because of academia and the standards and molds that have been set in place through hundreds of years of study. Some view history as just a bunch of facts, but as Lemon conveys in this chapter that is not the case. While history is facts, it is also a way in which to try and predict the future; it is also about shaping and creating identity. There are so many uses that history has had for many different people like we talked about in class. Hitler used history as a means of justifying killing the jews. There are some many examples, but history is more than facts, and speculative history is essential to historiography because it goes deeper than just looking at techniques but looks at the more profound meaning that people over many centuries were looking for the questions that are still trying to be answered like the what is human nature? what has it been throughout time? and has it chaged? 
