## *The Annales School* ##

It is interesting to think that our view of history and how we record it, can easily change generations down the line. It is already evident that with the changing of technology and all of its’ advancements, our historical lens has already changed simply because of the access of information that we have. This shift was no exception to the annals school of thought. 
  <p>In tonight’s reading, we see how history and the scholars who changed the way in which it is viewed, made a switch from a broader perspective, to one in which we view things a little bit closer. A view in which they called macro and micro history. Part of this shift, can be attributed to the postwar era in which the values that many held on to before the war, were now reevaluated and reconfigured. In other words, the experiences of people and the lives in which they lived took importance over the histories of one particular region or place.  This is a trend that we continue to see today with many modern historians. 
   <p>Having this view about history is an interesting concept to think about, mainly because it forces you to think about a certain event or date in whole new way. Many times, we are taught in school to remember major dates such as the day of the bombing of pearl harbor, or the day that president Kennedy was assassinated. These are the things that are engrained in us in school when we are learning about certain events or decades. What we don’t often get to think about is those who lived through those experiences. 
  <p>The closest example I can think about is 9/11. That is a date that is also engrained in us and in school children, many who were not even born yet when it happened. Yet, there are also some who did live through it, whose personal experiences hold a lot of merit and represent the very real side of that event; for them it is more than a date, it is a day in which their lives were altered forever and giving them 2 timelines of their lives; before 9/11 and after 9/11. 
  <p>Trauma has a way of not only altering lives forever but also a person’s mindset, and as we saw with this reading, trauma also has a way of changing academic thought and ones’ view of history. Prior to the war, history was viewed in a way that showed progress and growth as a human race. After the war,  as mentioned previously, that view shifted to the individual’s and their experiences, a concept that still resonates with the world of academia and scholars in today’s society. 
