# The Shift in History

### The History of Everyday Life

Iggers guides his audience through the time period of postmodernization having assumed that the reader is familiar both with the time frame and basic understanding of the period. Looking more through eyes of objectivity than a bias, he discusses how we shifted from a macro to a micro approach in history through historians such as **Francis Fukuyama**, **George Duby**, and **Jaques Le Goff**. The idea that there is an _end to history_ through modernization is a heavy topic being looked at through the lenses of current historians. If a historian wants to help others understand where they come from they would suggest looking into the history of their ancestors, when many wouldn’t look beyond that of their parents. The **small stories** and little tidbits of a singular figure through their life shows  modern people more than the macro ideas that are shoved in their face from a young age. These macro histories have been used to promote a nationalistic idea, to ignore many voices and only look towards _facts_ defined by historians who came just before them. The _”small is beautiful”_ idea from Medick is so important for the argument of cultural historians as they view the small ideas and people as the most important sources to understanding the time period at large.

### The Annales

The Annales School laid a ground work for a **histoire totale** and again for a transition from macro to micro history. The history’s that came out of this school of thought shaped how we separate ourselves in the world of history today. The **three layers of historical time** from _Braudel_ give us the geographical, economical, and diplomatic separations, unknown to how those could spread to form other smaller groupings. Essentially all aspects of a society lead into a furthering of understanding the overall society. Without one aspect the balance is thrown off and the overall understanding/ learnability of a topic is lost.

### Personal Inquires

These two articles lead me to question how a single historian could be able to understand and claim an individual right over research. The individuality of a topic does not exist. Every time period requires us to look at the multitude of society. Who is leading, who is rebelling, who is oppressed. What prices looked like, what currency was being used, it’s strength overall. The technologies used at the time, the investors inquires, the overall availability of the technology. In today’s world we have access to thousands of documents with the search of one term. It’s overwhelming to both see and search through it all. Because of this we loose the individuality of a single time period. A historian could loose themselves looking purely at the art depicting the difference in aristocratic and peasant life during the French Revolution for example. This historian could loose so much understanding of the overall effect of the diplomatic and economic effects this had beyond that small scope. With these specializations, how could we not create more jobs for historians assisting in any governmental office? **When did history die? How can we revive it? And where can we insert it into everyday life?**
