## The Annales School: Questions on Micro-histories, time, and computation

The Iggers reading delves into 'microstorias', the Italian tradition of micro-histories written by former Marxist thinkers who found qualms with the authoritarian regimes Marx inspired as well as the macrohistorical approaches that Marxism identified with. I love the idea of micro-histories, as they often focus on marginalized peoples in a specific regional context. These Italian historians claimed that their methodology was superior because it avoided the sweeping generalizations that social scientists made which often did not align with historical realities on a small scale. However, these microstorias were only written about times and places hundreds of years ago when the world was much more isolated, both geographically and culturally. So, can micro-histories be written about contemporary times? In this techonological world connected more than ever before--through social media, decreased transportation costs, and expanding urban environments--is there enough regional and individual variation to do microstorias? **If microstorias focus on "an individual in a given locality and an attempt to stress the difference of this very local setting from a larger norm” (111), can they still be written in this modern, interconnected world where cultures are evermore homogenous?**

The second wave of the Annales School was largely influenced by Braudel who some argued was a 'geographic determinist'. Looking at his spatial conceptions of time, we find examples like "the Mediterranean is 99 days long" (88). His emphasis on regionally specific and tangible descriptions of space and time transported me (and maybe other readers too) from my conventional mindset of hours, minutes, and seconds on a geographic coordinate plane of the Mediterranean to one of experiential understanding. **When writing micro-histories, how can we as historians transcend powerful cultural constructions, like conceptions of time, to connect our readers to a more experiential understanding of a foreign past?** Standardized time, as we know it, is only as old as the railroad, but has become a powerful lens through which we interpret all of history. **How does Braudel's conception of time (the ocean metaphor) shift our understanding of historical events? Should we consider alternative interpretations of time when writing regional histories?** For example, if writing about ancient Egypt, should we consider a time metaphor that emphasizes floods and recurrent cycles?

Braudel and his followers emphasized computation and quantitative histories in a method they called 'hitorie problem' or problem solving history. **As technology improves and data becomes more and more available, should we be wary of quantitative history?** Does an emphasis on problem solving through data analysis in historical research undermine other goals of historical writing? If so which ones and in what ways? 
