# Some Thoughts on "A Changing Conscience of History"
Like Chloe, I too had some reservations about Lemon's claims about the medieval mindset. Particularly, the author uses the Middle Ages as a case study to state that there is an inverse relationship between interest in speculative history and actual history (75). I don't feel like they have to be mutually exclusive. It is true that thinkers of medieval times retreated from actual history in their search for meaning in the 'City of God', but how does that justify a blanket statement like Lemon's claim in a univeral inverse relationship between types of historical consciousness? Looking to our own class as an example, are we not another case study asserting the possibility of understanding and appreciating both speculative and analytic histories?

On a seperate note, I wanted to address the recurring theme of geography throughout this chapter and invite us to consider the role it played in the shift from medieval to Renaissance historical thinking. Firstly, the fact that people in the Middle Ages were so inspired by Augustine's 'City of God' concept that they lost interest in their 'City of Earth'got me to thinking about other civilizations deeply influenced by the afterlife, particularly the Egyptians and the ancient Chinese. While both of these cultures placed significant emphasis on the afterlife, did it push them away from an appreciation of actual history as it did for those of medieval Christendom? Or were the Middle Ages an exception instead of the rule in this regard?

Also, the author discusses the influence of civic humanists, noting how humanisitc values were more common in expanding urban centers than they were in the traditionally rural medieval Christian countrysides. Which got me to thinking about whether its best to look at this shift from medieval to Renaissance thinking from a religious vs. secular approach or more from a geographical one analyzing urban and rural divides? 

One final geographic consideration. Lemon's discussion on cartography (particularly the rediscovery of Ptolemy's work, Mercator's influence, and the expansion of Spain and Portugal) made me question how different our historiography would be if our understanding of geography hadn't changed so significantly during this period. How intertwined is our historical perspective to our geographical one?  
