# A CHANGING CONSCIOUSNESS

### RENAISSANCE

The _Renaissance Era_ was a turn away from Augustine’s philosophy and away from the **City of God.** Instead of looking forward to what is yet to come, the _Renaissance Era_ was focused on the **City of man.** These disciplines were mostly directed ‘towards Heaven’. Instead, the humanist curriculum studied the changing things of the human world. (Lemon, pg 78-79) This humanist thought process placed emphasis on what is going on the earthly world so that, in turn, places more emphasis on history and progress of mankind. In paying more attention to history people in this mindset took a deeper dive in areas of language or poetry and tried to understand more of what was trying to be said. Economics was another area which changed from an emphasis on humility to emphasis on gaining individual wealth to be enjoyed on this world. Becoming individually rich became a goal that most strived for instead of something to be ashamed of. Perhaps the biggest development to come from the _Renaissance Era_ was the printing industry. Humanist were able to get their secular and individualist ideals to mass with this **communication revolution** (Lemon, pg 85). 

### MACHIAVELLI

_Machiavelli_ took the humanist renaissance era thinkers and raised them from putting the focus on earth to mankind having some power to control their own destiny. He took the **Christians** liaise fair attitude towards history as ignorance and not wanting to help the future by looking at the past. Also those who subjugated to the fate of cycles were not safe either. In short, he is accusing his contemporaries of a political complacency and inefficacy born of historical ignorance. (Lemon, pg 95)  He argues that mankind is a product of their environment. That whoever embraces the changing times and uses them to the best of their advantage. ‘Fortune determines the times we live in, and can rapidly change them so that those who, by change or intelligence have prospered by adapting **to the times.** (Lemon, pg 101) The biggest thing left to chance is what time period a person or group is in. Looking at the common theme of cycles _Machiavelli_ understood that there will be ups and downs that humans will have to endure, but for the most part the cycle was a result of “human scale interplay between man’s action and necessities of situations.” (Lemon, pg 103) Machiavelli took control from a high being or a natural cycle and gave mankind a degree of control for their own future.  
