# Good Morning. I’m a little upset about *A Changing Conciousness of History*. #

How many things are we going to ignore?

In previous chapters, although I had the sense we were glossing over certain aspects of historiographical thought, I didn’t have enough background knowledge to really make the argument. Now though, we’ve entered into my wheelhouse. According to Lemon, for the entire Middle Ages (almost 1000 years) "**nothing innovative arose in terms of a new outlook on the significance of human history**” (74-75).

Wow. *No.*
 
As a student with *very little* experience learning about historiography, who, in truth, didn’t even know what the word meant until four weeks ago, I can still say this is a huge miss. Let’s cite some examples. The Venerable Bede, a monk and medieval historian, is known for writing works such as the *Ecclesiastical History of the English People*, providing a largely secular, linear history of one nation of people. I couldn’t wait to learn more in-depth about how his approach changed historical thought, since its combination of secular, Christian, and pagan ‘histories’ provided an almost accurate account of events. **But I guess not.** Who needs to discuss the impact of changing dating practices from the reigns of kings to the birth of Christ? 

We also don’t get to learn about African or Asian historiography almost at all (with the small exception of the earliest empires of man). The Mandate of Heaven, a Zhou-initiated ideology in China, is another philosophy of history both thoroughly medieval and thoroughly ignored. Lemon briefly remembers that China exists when he mentions their ability to print: “The Chinese had invented their own techniques before AD 200” (84). However, he doesn’t discuss the impact of printing in the East and therefore leaves his readers with unanswered questions. Finally, the Golden Age of Islam, also medieval, is never even mentioned. Although the bulk of the progress from this movement was scientific in nature, this does not mean there is nothing of value to be gleaned from the discussion of it. 

I’m sure I’ve missed several examples, because my personal knowledge of history is, like everyone else’s, limited. This is the problem with ignoring cultures in favor of the traditional Western story of history: by leaving people out, *we miss the impact they’ve had on their own cultures and the world at large*. Unfortunately, there is a lot of valuable information about Renaissance-era thinking in the west in this chapter. Concepts like scholastic learning, the humanities, and individualism are covered, and I didn’t pay attention to any of it. To dismiss so much time in a paragraph, and then focus on primarily one nation’s thought over less than a century is to **massively** unbalance this guide.
