# A Changing Consciousness of History 

I find it almost ridiculous that recent historians would try to say in many more complex statements, the reason history depicts the fall of polytheistic Rome was replaced by the Christian dominance was simply for a new topic to write about. If present day Rome was not the capital of Catholicism, where the Pope resided, they might have more speculative-room to play with in the reader’s imaginative vulnerability. I think if this had much truth to it, it would have been preserved in documentation. Lemon also says that people of the late fourteenth century were blind to any cultural or geographical histories other than their own new found Christian view. I have to say, after a thousand years of monotonous dark ages, this new bright set of Christian lenses made life much easier to look through, so I cannot blame them. The people of this time were not interested in scholarly and accurate historical documentation. They were ready for a change, and Christianity came and did just that. 
This change of consciousness did have some biased outcomes, in that, those who now documented history were tied to the Church. Those of intellect such as Monks encouraged by Aquinas were stamping out any philosophy that did not fit into the mold of Christianity. Being that I am a practicing Christian, I am also biased in the many of the same ways, I just have the benefit of living in the twenty-first century. Not only do I have the engrained ‘knowledge’ of the present American views on history, I also have access to a plethora of archives from which I am free to triangulate, speculate, and finally formulate a much more concrete view than those in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries. 
Then, when the people of the fourteenth century were comfortable in their new ways, they shifted their gaze from the heavens, back down towards their own reflections, mankind. With The Renaissance came thinking’s such as Individualism and Humanism, which promoted the idea that man was the center of his own universe, and people should embrace human achievements in education, classical arts, literature and the sciences. The aspect of The Renaissance that began to think as speculative philosophizers of history was Cultural Relativism. This being the idea that a person's beliefs, values, and practices should be understood based on that person's own culture, rather than be judged against the criteria of another. However, this tug-of-war between politics and spirituality, made it stagnant for the rational attempts of making sense of history for the next few centuries.  

