# Questions arising from *A Changing Conciousness of History*

1. In a passage on pages 74-75, Lemon states that during the Middle Ages, that is from the fifth to the fourteenth centuries, "*nothing innovative arose in terms of a new outlook on the significance of human history*” [italics added]. This can only be true in the unstated context of Western Europe. For example, there is only the faintest, most indirect reference to the Islamic Golden Age of cultural and scientific advancement, and even that is only made in the context of their preservation of Greek writings so the newly-Enlightened Europeans could rediscover them (190). Are we to believe, as Lemon seems to, that not one single Muslim philosopher ever wrote on the nature of time or history? Or does Lemon consider these sources to not only be outside the scope of his book, focusing as he does on Graeco-Roman and Western European philosophers, but unworthy of even a passing reference? In the preceding chapter, there is a quote from Jaki that states that “’the Koran [sic] did not provide the necessary mental encouragement and guidelines for a rational approach to the universe’” (60). For him to argue that any writings originating in the Arab world would be too enmeshed in the Islamic faith to be useful would seem to be hypocritical, given the Christian nature of many of the writings he has used as sources so far. **Why does this chapter, and the book as a whole, seem to disregard any potential addition to the field of speculative philosophy of history made in the pre-modern period by anyone outside of the Graeco-Roman world and western Europe?**

2. Even if we accept his decision to focus so narrowly, Lemon seems to either be willingly ignoring or simply unaware of many scholars who advanced our understanding of the past in the Middle Ages. For example, the Venerable Bede, who is most well-known for a fairly conventional history of England, popularized the use of the Anno Domini system of labeling years, that is, giving the year as a number starting from the birth of Christ. He did not invent it, but he popularized it as an alternative to the then-common system of referring to years in the context of the reign of an Emperor, or later a Pope. This can be seen as a move away from the Roman, cyclical system, resetting upon the coronation of a new head of state, towards the linear, Christian system. Notably, it is still in use today, though some choose to use the term “Common Era” as a secular alternative. **Why does Lemon ignore achievements like this, and in doing so reinforce the myth of the so-called “Dark Ages”?**

3. In his discussion of Machiavelli’s *The Prince*, Lemon takes it for granted that Machiavelli meant all that he wrote. He mentions Rousseau’s good opinion of him, but nowhere in this chapter does Lemon bring up the competing view that Rousseau, among many other historians, have, that *The Prince* was written entirely or partially as an ironic work, intended as a rebuke of the tactics of the Medecis to whom it is dedicated, and who themselves had tortured and exiled Machiavelli. **Why is this interpretation not mentioned, as it would seem that this could serve as a case study in Historiography?**
