## Questions from A Changing Degree of Conciousness

1. Lemon writes, “how the people of the renaissance era characterized “the medieval mind” as lacking any properly historical consciousness of their own past and of the diverse nature of other cultures”. He goes on to say that this supposition created the notion that “they saw themselves living in a changeless society, finding no inspiration for change through looking at their own or anybody else’s history” (75). How might the refusal of study of one’s own history or the history of others change how the history of their time is written?

2.	People of the renaissance era formed new ideas and attitudes that opposed the traditional Roman Catholic way of thinking. Many factors contributed to these new ideologies, but perhaps one of the most crucial elements leading up to these new radical changes is cultural relativism. Lemon states, “ In less than 150 years… the renaissance impulse for discovery, adventure, entrepreneurship, and worldly wealth had opened up not only a “New World”, but a new world” (84). What were the implications of this newfound cultural relativism between the old world and the new world? How might this have changed the beliefs of historians about their own history?

3.	Would cultural relativism and new ideologies formed during the renaissance era succeeded had it not been for the printing press? To what degree does the accessibility of communication to the common people change way history is viewed and perceived?

4.	Machiavelli did not study history for the sake of “taking pleasure… in the variety of events history relates”, rather he studied history understand the “true sense” or “spirit” of history. He wanted people to “use” or “view” history in a new way” (95). He claims that people who do not study history in this way, fail to emphasize with other cultures. He states, “all those matters which, after a comparison between a comparison between ancient and modern events, may seem to me necessary to facilitate their proper understanding… [this] should be the aim of all study of history” (96). Was Machiavelli correct? Should this be the aim of all study of history?
