## Summary for Chapter 5

### Thomas Aquinas
- Aquinas brought forth the idea the our goal on this earth is not to satisfy our earthly desires but rather to aim towards a heavenly goal. He also makes the statement that "nature is not destroyed by Grace, but perfected by it". This idea contrasts the popular Christian view at the time and states that there is good to be found in nature, and that all nature is not evil, but rather incomplete. 

### The Renaissance
- The Renaissance brought forth change in society in a variety of ways. One of the main ways that change was brought in the Renaissance was through education. Education moved from the primary study of logic, law, science, astronomy, and metaphysical philosophy to the study of the human world. It began to study grammar, rhetoric, poetry, moral philosophy, and history.
- Another product of the Renaissance was the idea of individualism. This was seen in primarily two different ways during this time. The first was the emergence of different people that were remarkable in their talents or pursuits. An example of these people was Leonardo da Vinci, "The Renaissance Man". The other way this was seen was in a more general sense of "individualism" or an individualist spirit that was found in the population of the time.
- Another event that caused change during the Renaissance was the new tool that was the printing press. Although printing had already been discovered by the Chinese in the east around AD 200, printing didn't come to the west until around AD 1450. The invention of the printing press by Johannes Gutenburg was not only the invention of a tool but the invention of the widespread circulation of knowledge. After the printing press, people had much easier and simpler access to books and people were finally able to determine their own thoughts about different subjects that they had not studied before. 

### Niccolo Machiavelli
- Machiavelli tackled issues in "The Prince" and in "The Discourses on the First Ten Books of Livy's History of Rome" that the broad public of the time was reluctant to address. Machiavelli, because of his dive into these moral and political issues was determined to be a "teacher of evil". This was because in "The Prince", he advises the "Princes" to ignore traditional Christian morality if necessary to further their own political gain. Lemoan says "...rather, he is a serious thinker tackling actual senarios without the moral hypocrisy with which his own writings have so often been approached" (93). He tackles senarios that are difficult and perhaps morally ambiguous and states that perhaps in order to fully handle the situations, you may have to differ from the traditional Christian norms. Machiavelli was tackling difficult situations and was determinded a "teacher of evil" not because his ideas were in fact evil but rather that he was the only one publically addressing these issues and was causing discomfort in society which caused them to deem him as such.
- Lemon states about Machiavelli that, "his primary passion was for the maintenance of an orderly governed society and crucially, he thought that in its pursuit people can, and leaders should, learn from history" (94). Machiavelli challenged people to utilize history to understand their current society and to tackle moral issues that they face daily. 
