## Summary: A Changing Consciousness of History

### The Renaissance 
- Throughout the middle ages, history and its perceptions were unchanged, and a "historical ignorance" (pg. 125) had taken root. The words of Augustine had become the only way in which one was to look and study history. Scholars looked at history and life through a purely religious lens until Thomas Aquinas. The *Summa Theologica* introduced a new way to view things like nature, and that was through a __temporal point of view__. Lemon argues that society was no longer focused on all things godly but more focused on the world they lived in at that moment. 

- The study of the humanities became popular and spread rapidly throughout Italy and Europe. With this new curriculum, "the scene was set, the intellectual world was now equipped" (pg. 127). The study of the humanities allowed further study of multiple cultures like that of the ancient Greeks and Romans. Renaissance humanists focused on the human world instead of the Godly one like it did so much before. 

- Things like the invention of the printing press and the expansion of economics led to changing of society. Printing caused both positive and negative consequences. With the invention, it led to the further spreading of classical and religious works. While this was a good thing, it also led the way for things like propaganda created by the church to further control and dictate what went on around them. Lemon argues that the focus on nature led to the expansion and growth of the economy and travel during the 1500s. 

### Thomas More and Machiavelli 

- Thomas More's *Utopia* reflected the change that took place throughout the renaissance. His work also shows how society was becoming more autonomous and secular. His work is influenced by __Platonic philosophy__ compared to before where the church and sciences were influenced and shaped by Aristotelian philosophy. Lemon also talks about how Utopia asked people to see "their future history."(pg. 152). *Utopia* questioned the social and economic norms by challenging society to be better.

- Machiavelli wrote a lot on 'statecraft,' and some of what he wrote is viewed as being evil because of what he thinks is needed in order to run a state. When it comes to history, Machiavelli saw history as something that people can learn from and use to make society better. Machiavelli found that in order for one to be a good leader or in order to learn one should look to history because of the many different things it teaches and tells about previous leaders and society like that of the Roman and Greeks. However, in order to find these lessons or 'principles,' one needs to find where the change happened. Lemon points out the Machiavelli's work reflects the resurgence of cyclical thinking when it comes to history. 
