## Ramblings on what history is for

This may be my favorite Lemon chapter yet. The author does an exceptional job deconstructing the seemingly ubiquitous and cliché question of what is history for, or more specifically what ought it be for. Time-worn phrases like ‘we learn history so that we don’t have to repeat it’ barely begin to explain the breadth and depth of the philosophical debate Lemon curates. The author is effective in defining the constraints of his questioning, such as **the premise that there is an inherent relationship between the nature of history and its purpose**, and that **there is a fundamental difference between creating history** (being an historian) **and reading it** (being a consumer of historical products). I was repeatedly impressed by the author’s rhetorical skills—very Aristotelian, if this then this kind of logic—which was both easy to follow and hard to refute. For example, his framework for the juxtaposed reasons for doing history (either for its own sake or for some other end) can be applied to the motivation for doing anything from gardening to war. 
Lemon consistently offered relatable hypotheticals such as the razor blade anecdote (337) and the car at the mechanic example (334) which made it easier for me to relate heady theories about the nature and righteousness of different kinds of history. Because the author’s logic is so sound, I have been unable to come up with a potential alternative, but am still unsure if Lemon is selling us short on this binary motivational thinking. Specifically, are there really only two motivations for doing anything: for its own sake (final actions) or for an end to a means (practical actions)? Are there not other possible reasons? What about when people act illogically? How does irrational human behavior factor into this very constructed chain of logic? 
Another qualm I had with this chapter relates to the author’s assertion that “both common sense and practical experience tell us that no one invents a fictional story simply for the sake of it” (345). I would argue that the opposite is true—people since time immemorial have told fictitious stories simply for the pleasure of the experience. **In my opinion, having an audience does not necessarily lead to practical actions.** 
I also wanted to point out a few of Lemon’s lines for us to use for personal ends. He clearly articulates some of the occupational skills of an historian that I think we could use on resumes or in interviews. Specifically the ability to “understand complex scenarios, arbitrate between alternative points of view, argue an interpretation, comprehend what it is to be ‘objective’, and manifest a competent articulacy both in writing and speaking” (353). Sometimes it is hard to articulate the skills we’ve been learning these last several years, and I think this summary could be a helpful tool. 
One final comment: I really enjoyed Lemon’s breakdown of the difference between *essential* and *particular* narrative descriptions. In describing event in history, say a war for example, it is not important to describe what the essence of war is but what made that war particular. The author gives the example of describing a house and shows that it is ineffective to simply state that it had windows, doors, and rooms when really what was important were the factors that made it unique or particular when compared to the essentialism of houses. I am going to try to incorporate this into my writing, especially when efficiency and economy of words are needed over an all-encompassing discourse.  
