#Comments on "What is History **For**?"

- Right off the bat, it seems to me that the central question of this chapter is one that is not unique to the analytical branch of philosophy of history. Indeed, from my recollection of the first half of the book, most of the speculative philosophers of history were also wrestling with this question, though they approached it from a different direction, so to speak. 

- It is interesting to me that in the context of pondering what history is for, now Lemon (and anyone else who strives to answer the question) may include not only those who create history, as in the previous chapter, but those who consume it as well. I would interject that it might be worth including this latter group in the previous discussion of what history **is**, at least to some extent, but while their exclusion there is not unreasonable, here it would be folly.  

- An argument could be made that doing history for its own sake is the only truly pure form of history. In any other case when another motive is in mind, even if it is high-minded or morally pure, as in the case of learning about the past to better understand the events of the present, and to help try and predict what will happen next, there is an element of the teleological about the whole process. In this case, events or people which are not seen as sufficiently momentous or important will, albeit with the best of intentions, be ignored. When learning about the past simply for the joy of it, or to satiate an inquisitive frame of mind, all that catches the historian’s (or the reader of history’s) fancy will be brought to light. 
