# Comment for Chapter 13 

This chapter as of right now would be my favorite chapter Lemon has put out here for us. What really sets it aside from the others is the question “what is the main point of History, and why do we study it and use it”? Right away in the introduction paragraph Lemon says, “What does it matter what motivates an individual to study history, so long as he or she does it well?” **(p. 323)** When reading that it gave me an image on why I study history. I may be looking for the answer right away as to who did what on that day, what were the motives and intent, did they succeed, altercations after the incident, or because of the teachings in this class simply just asking why was this particular event important in the writings of history? Lemon dose a great job defining the motive on why we may study history in this chapter and gives some nice examples to explain them. 

One example that really stood out was the idea of the **‘Razor Blade’**. He talks about a daughter wanting to understand what a razor blade is. Her father defines it as “an extremely sharp and dangerous kind of knife, for shaving his face.” **(p.337)** What he is saying is true but Lemon defines that there are two **Partial accounts**, first the father never explained its other uses, why it needs to be sharp, what material is it made of and so on, and the second being he made his argument biased in order to make his daughter look at the razor blade and becoming weary about touching it. This example really hits on the importance we as Historians must have in research and presentation on historical events. It really opened my eyes to making sure I define and present these two Partial accounts in order to prevent bias and really get to understand the historical context. 

What is History for? Lemon says for the practising historian in their attempt to **pursue knowledge** of the past and how to **communicate that knowledge**. Lemon also brings up the difference between essential and particular narrative, and this goes back to my first paragraph about my understanding of history. We can take an example like a presidential election, were not looking for the essence and description of the election but why it was so particular to history. All in all this chapter was solid, and I’m very excited to hear what others have to say about it in our discussion. 
