# Notes on Pre-Classical Ideas of History
First of all, this reading feels a bit presumptuous. How can the author presume to know how pre-classical people felt about the world around them in such intimate ways? Lemon purports to know how “pre-classical people (did or) did not experience their being in the world” (16) without sufficient reference to examples, footnotes, or sources. For example, statements like “they had no notion of historical progress and therefor no belief in it” (22) seems totally unfounded and impossible to prove. Likewise, his statement of “progress results from science…and ancient peoples were ignorant of it” (23) discredits the value of ancient scientific progress in the fields of astronomy, agriculture, and engineering, among others. Also, his use of phrases like ‘primitive’, although qualified, are not substituted with a more appropriate, academic alternatives. The author acknowledges the troublesome nature of the phrase but continues to use it in that context.

Caveats on style aside, I did enjoy Lemon’s perspectives on animation and the archetypal past. Looking to the history of creation myths, the author outlines how ancient people used these stories to interpret their place in the cosmos. That retrospective process has always been part of the human experience and continues to enthrall minds to this day. Lemon points out the tendency of early civilizations to idolize their origins and imagine them as ‘pristine’. People still do that ‘grass is always greener’ process on a regular basis—looking back to the good ol’ days when times were simpler.

The author argues that ancient peoples saw everything in the world as animated from themselves, to the trees, to phenomena of the weather. Although I don’t think this perspective is limited to ancient peoples (think Eastern religions and Native American belief systems), it is a helpful method for understanding the cosmological perspectives of early Western civilizations. If people believed that a lack of rain for their crops was due to the anger of the gods, that would change the way they told stories about themselves and their pasts. It is important to consider their perspectives on animation and causality when interpreting their histories.  
