# Pre-classical

#### Pre-historic mentality 

While reading Lemon describe the mindset of people in the **pre-classical** era he ripped them apart. It seemed like he went a little heavy handed on them. He called their historical accounts _highly imaginative, fantastic, and poetic_. He said their accounts of reality consisted of _animated phenomena_. Then he goes on to describe the people of having a child like ignorance. While it was a bit of a low blow to the people I think he did a nice job detailing why he compared them to a child like mentality. How the door itself doesn’t hurt them, it is just an object that is given purpose by a living object like a human being. Through his elegant name calling he did make some good points about how all the objects of nature are alive. His story of the persons getting cut by the plant and how it was the god of the that plant striking back at the person for trying to remove the plant landed perfectly to get his point across. 

Sitting back and thinking about the first section of the reading I got the impression that Lemon was pointing out how you have to look at historical sources or _myths_. Learning and researching about the culture of the author(s) goes a long way in understanding not only what they are describing but why. We can look back at the time period and understand that Lemon is showing us that their views and understanding of the world at that time is monumental in being able to decipher what is being said and why. 

#### Cycles

 Looking at the second part of the assigned reading for Lemon I got a serious **Circle of Life** vibe from this section. It may have been the fact that I just took my wife to see the _Lion King_, but none the less I think it still fits. The term **fate** seemed to summarize the whole idea behind what the mindset was at this time, as described by Lemon.  The idea of blind chance comes into play with civilization along for ride. With the patterns of the moon, sun, stars, tides, and seasons being completely out humans control people had to try to time these patterns to best of their abilities and hope for the best. The analogy of every civilization and the world going through this pattern of advancement was an interesting thought that makes a lot of sense. From childhood or a seed that grows into kinship groups organized into village which in time grew into city-states (Lemon, pg 36) Again the **Circle of Life** comes to mind and encapsulates the pattern which Lemon is describing.  
