Pre-Classical Ideas on History
Lemon states that speculative philosophy of history did not begin until the sixteenth, or even as late as the seventeenth century. As far as the remainder of the chapter read, this is true. The way in which people in pre-classical times viewed history is through a mythical mindset seems almost ridiculous through the lenses I perceive with. They did not incorporate rational thought into views of the past, but rather, through religious beliefs, stories, and fables. Lemon says we should restrict the meaning of philosophy strictly to the exercise of reason unshackled from belief or superstition. To say this during the present is almost indisputable, however, during any time before the fifteenth century would be heresy and those responsible for going against the “church” would be dealt with harshly. I am much more satisfied with our current situation in that questioning for understanding is welcomed in academia, for what we see as the progress of mankind by better understanding. 
Justification for the speculative philosophy of history not beginning until the sixteenth century is repeated through this chapter with the evidence that not until then has there been an uninterrupted linear documentation of thinkers responding to each other. Prior to the fifteen hundreds, history would drop the “hi” and be more appropriately named “story”. The way in which those of the past appear to have viewed time is through a mythical lens. Believing in the eternal recurrence of cycles, which would insinuate that there has not been any historical progress. Had I lived back then, I would like to believe that I would have questioned this aspect. But, in reality, I would have most likely rode the popular wave. I cannot imagine living my live believing that my actions, as well as others had no effect of progress. That is a pretty sad existence. 
Most of the narrative in pre-classical times were stories that contained moral lessons, as well as entertainment. Both of these aspects suggest to me that these narratives contain little, to no truths. So in turn, did the people of these times see these stories as literal truth, or did they see them the way we currently do as religiously based guidelines? 
I really like the fact that Lemon has begun to make speculative philosophy of history protagonist, by its potential to be a continuous practice in the field that will rationally reconstruct the past. I much prefer this semantic view over my previous feeling about it. Prior to reading this passage, Speculative philosophy of history seemed to be playing the bad-guy in the study of history. This is especially difficult for me due to the fact that I am a practicing Christian and belief many of these “myths”. Knowing what I now know will help me to bridge these gaps and make better sense of what I belief to be true, or in other words, make progress. 

