# A few disconnected thoughts on *Pre-Classical Ideas on History*

The first thing that jumped out at me, was the author's willingness to acknowledge that in another context, he might (and in fact based on one of the notes he did) make a different argument based on the same facts, namely that speculative philosophy of history can be considered to have begun in the sixteenth of seventeenth centuries AD. I appreciate this mainly because he simultaneously gives us a glimpse into the differing approaches (and conclusions) that may arise even, as in this case, between two different works by the same author, and then sets that controversy aside so as not the distract the reader of this “’guide’” (Lemon 15). It struck me a very elegant way to handle the issue. 

The next thing that occurred to me is that this chapter was more like what I thought I would be seeing when I signed up for this class. I don’t begrudge the previous chapter, since without it I would have been deeply confused while reading this one, but now that I can see speculative philosophy in action, so to speak, I feel as though I understand it much better than when I first read about it and had to think about it in a much more abstract way. 

As I got into the meat of the chapter, I found many of the assumptions I had about pre-classical societies, as well as many of my deeply, and to large extent subconsciously, held assumptions about history in general, challenged. It seemed to me that Lemon’s approach to examining the mindset of pre-classical people, and thus their approach to history (or lack thereof, at least as far as we consider history today), was heavily inspired by anthropologic techniques. There too, students are taught to set aside their assumptions when dealing with unfamiliar ways of thinking about and experiencing the world. 

One of the biggest assumptions was that of inevitable historical progress, and I found Lemon’s argument that if one experiences the world as a whole as animate, then the idea of attempting to control it would seem a foolhardy endeavor, if it occurred at all, to be very convincing. Here, I found his drawing of comparisons to our modern “’fetishising’ mentality” (19) very helpful. And I am certainly not immune to some superstition. Though I ~~(being the highly educated and rational person that I am)~~ scoff at astrology, I try to avoid tempting fate, and I have been known to knock on wood. 
