# Of death and progress
**Pre-historic mentality**

Lemon begins the second chapter by explaining that in early civilizations, the people had different mentalities about the world and how nature interacted with humanity. He calls this way of thinking ' pre-historic' mentality in which " Three features stand out- a mythical view of space and time; a belief in the eternal recurrence of ' cycles' of events; and following from these beliefs, the absence of any notion of the historical capacity of man to fashion what we call progress" ( Lemon 15). He believes that in the classical and even earlier times that the lack of growth and development of the sciences has to do with the focus of the societies outlook on death and their mentality towards it. Lemon questions, " Do ancient peoples not believe in " progress" because, as suggested, their underlying ' philosophy' afforded little significance to life on earth?" ( Lemon 24).  Although at the time of him questioning this reasoning, he does not give any argument until the next chapter where he talks about the Egyptians and the Mesopotamian. Both of which had made significant progress to humanity during the reign of their empires though had very different outlooks on life. 

**World View and progress**

In the second chapter, Lemon comments on **Frankfort**'s notes about how the geographical landscape has a significant influence on the ideologies and outlooks of societies (30). Though neither authors go into depth about the issue, it is essential to see how simple geographical features can drastically influence mentalities. The most significant influence on the Egyptian mindset could be the Nile River, which had a **cycle** of flooding. This yearly event would bring prosperity, which can be seen within the societies view of the afterlife. Simply Egyptians believed that the cycle of life would start again in the afterlife. This mentality could be the result of understanding the cycles that governed their lives as a predictable one. This calming environment allowed Egyptians to **progress**. Mesopotamia had a vastly different viewpoint which caused their outlook to seem bleak, which was created by unpredictable flooding of the Tigris and Euphrates rivers. These events caused the **mentality** of the Mesopotamian societies to believe that life should be cherished as in death the gods will punish you. ".. but the impulse to make things better, to question and change things, to take control of circumstances, was foreign to their mentality and thus absent from their psychology" ( lemon 24). Lemon argues that because the mentality not to improve upon their life because of this psychology, yet it was in Mesopotamia that the start of **law** ( Code of Hammurabi) and **writting** ( Cuneiform) was started.  
