## Pre Classical Approaches to History


This chapter on Pre Classical attempts at recording history seemed at first assuming and almost arrogant. The author presented his ideas on pre classical societies as though they were fact when he has no idea of the actual validity of his points. He was not present in these times and therefore cannot give an accurate description of what was actually happening. That being said, his ideas were still intriguing and can promote productive discourse. 


One of the points that was interesting to me in Lemon's writing was his idea of ancient people's primitiveness. In the book he says "But for our purposes, what is important is the concept of 'primitiveness', for it figures in subsequent efforts to 'make sense' of history, particularly in diverse attempts meaningfully to periodise history - also it is a concept of obvious significance to those who ponder over the question of 'human progress" (18). I took from this that no one in ancient times was even attempting to understand the history before them and they did not give any attempt to use the history before them to progress in their society. 


Another interesting point the author made was on the idea of time itself. He says, "We may begin with their understanding of time itself. We now measure our time into discrete, equal, 'abstract' amounts such as hours, minutes, and seconds. These 'pieces' of time are not related to any events and, although abstractly identical, are each unique in the sense of being unrepeatable. It is true we also count time in terms of days, months, years, decades, and so on. But these are simply multiples of the smaller measures - a day is 24 hours. We give precise, unrepeatable dates to events. However, there is another, more 'poetic', sense of time which we all appreciate - namely, when we refer to a certain time in more concrete, personal terms; 'that Monday morning feeling', 'the weekend', 'it was end of term'. This is more akin to how ancient peoples understood time - as distinct 'pieces' or 'regions' of time with recognised, similar content" (19-20). Lemon here makes another claim about how ancient people understood time and the world around them. I question the validity of this statement purely on the basis that I saw no primary source reference by Lemon in this chapter. He seems to be making these claims without providing reason for them. Regardless, all of his points are interesting and again can cause us to think about how the philosophy of history has changed over thousands of years. 
