# Pre-Classical Ideas

### Primitiveness and Progress

Lemon discusses many viewpoints of historical humans which I have never considered before, or, in fact, have been taught the opposite. I feel as though there has been a push in recent years to see previous humans as more similar to contemporary humans. This includes common themes of thought, human nature, and shared struggles. It was very surprising and interesting to read Lemon reject this push towards commonality and actually argue that we do think quite differently than our past ancestors. 

Rather than refute words which are shunned in academic arenas today, Lemon uses them to try to ‘make sense’ of the past and how they viewed the world and themselves. ‘Primitive’ is the word which stands out the most, associated with ideas of child-like, naivety, and ignorance. However, understanding the uses of these words not for their contemporary meanings, but for how people used and understood them in the past allows for comprehending key past concepts, myths, and ideas. The connection between primitiveness and progress are typically viewed in a colonial sense, but understanding ancient views of ‘maturation’ of societies and inclinations of decay, rather than growth help to piece together answers to so many questions, such as “why has contemporary society advanced so much further than the Greeks or Romans?”

A trend when discussing human nature, brought up by Lemon also, is the _hubris_ or arrogance of man. One answer for the above question is that people believed they were the pinnacle of society, progress, or that they had reached their ‘purpose’. This idea is especially hard to understand due to the contemporary mindset of progress and ‘forwardness’. I have always viewed humans as a species that wants _more_ and _better_ versions of everything. A main drive of our progress is our hyper realization of inadequacy or simply that something could always be improved, so to try to imagine a society where this was not the consensual consciousness is very difficult and brings about greater questions about what ‘human nature’ really is, if it _is_ anything.

### Cycles

Cyclical views of reality, time, and space are not new concepts; however, trying to understand how those views would affect an entire society and make it different from contemporary society is very difficult to conceptualize. Lemon does a good job of highlighting how cyclical ideology would not only effect how society viewed time and space, but would also greatly affect how people moved within time and space because of those views. Believing that society was perpetually in decay, unless in the ‘golden age’, could easily have led to a sense of complacency or even meaninglessness. Likewise, ideas of fate, fortune, and willful gods, could induce a complete lack of control or responsibility for the present or future of mankind. Cyclical views also coincide with the idea of an ‘unchanging’ human nature, in which it may change momentarily or for an ‘age’, but will ultimately return to the beginning and cycle through again, forever looping an unending cycle.
