I found Lemon’s point of view on speculative philosophy of history to be very interesting. He clearly argues that speculative history poses serious flaws in rationality but is critically important for historians to understand because it is vital for understanding how people (ancient people in his example) understood the world around them, including their own history. Ancient people of “prehistoric mythical consciousness” saw nature not as “other” but as animated, just as themselves (16). In other words, every object or action was seen as a consequence or a cause of animated things around them (17). Lemon describes a the highly imaginative mentality as an individual coexisting within nature but that all things within nature were alive just as the individual. If a person were cut by a blade of grass, it may be the blade of grass conveying to that person a message from a god to consult with the medicine man, priest, or augurer what it’s meaning is (14). A difference between a modern and ancient individual is that a modern person, separated by the world by knowledge sees himself/herself in the world, whereas, an ancient person may have saw himself/herself of the world. The ways ancient people understood history and the world around them may not make sense to us today, but it was the way the made sense of the world. I found it interesting that Lemon sees this bizarre primitive mentality important for us to understand today; because its framework, although limited, worked for the civilization, kept society working together and functioning, and allows us to see how they understood the world and attempted to make sense of it. Although this speculative philosophy of history framework may seem bizarre to many, it is still very much alive in the mentality of people today. For example, people often try to find meaning in their life and meaning in the world around them. This is often true in coincidences, for example, you may receive a phone call from someone you haven’t talked to in a long time and believe that it “happened for a reason”. Other modern examples of popular belief including speculation and superstition are horoscopes/zodiac signs (meaning of personal characteristics/relationship compatibility) , observations (something bad happening because someone did something bad (or opposite), and dramatic life occurrences (why did this happen to me?) The point that I’m trying to make is that speculative philosophy is very much alive today and can be rooted back all the way to ancient peoples and their attempt towards trying to understand the world around them. 
