In chapters 2 and 3 of Philosophy of History, Lemons made me think of how prehistoric beings looked at life entirely different than present day or to even closer time periods. It was a definition of who they were and how their society differed from pre-civilization. He describes them as "people [who] share the innocence and naivety we like to associate with early childhood". As people we look back towards for moral epics and other great stories, comparing them to a child feels slightly degrading in comparison to how we have looked at them for so long. Their poetry, epics, and other documentation defined their own form of history, even though it was riddled with imagination and religious biases. Without these concepts and morals of the time would be lost. Yet with their chosen methods we have lost data on economical and lawful events. As humans and historians why do we focus on these concepts of economics from the past or governmental features to the extent that all individuals are lost?

The next bit that was interesting was how prehistoric peoples view progress. Scientific findings are a way of judging certain types of progress in technology and advancement in society. In current day society if we are not producing the next groundbreaking idea in technology we are not creating a worthwhile project. Back then, groundbreaking ideas were that of law, with Hammurabi's code becoming more widespread. Lemons does state that "they had no notion of 'historical progress'", which makes sense as they were history, everything that happened with major significance created history that would be passed down in order to understand where they stood in society and how best to tip toe the line of legality and the current leaders temper. Yet, while talked about in the next chapter, Ancient Greece took great strides in questioning the mythical past and looking at their own laws and views on people. To some this is seen as progress, they are pushing beyond the limits they once knew and are gaining an deeper understanding of the world. Yet coming from the perspective of the pre-historic people, how could abandoning their mythical dieties and adopting raitonal thought be the answer to creating a more progressed world? Would that not cause tensions between the people and their governing bodies both spiritually and in the face of the law?

As historians we study the ideas of progress, wether the progress happens in time, numbers, technology, or ideaologies. As humans we desire a sense of progress yet when the concept of progress does not exit we stand still and allow others to judge it for us. When given the power to chose progress we sometimes go so deep in thought that we are lost along the way.
