#### **Pre-Classical History, and Greco-Roman History**
<br return>  This reading was very intriguing as it gauged the ideas of history and its’ existence before what we would consider the modern existence of historical thought and philosophy or rather, the speculative philosophy of history.  Lemon makes some interesting insights into historical thought, and ideas in which I, nor many others would probably not have thought of because it is so engrained in us early on to accept History for what it is and the great thinkers of history and philosophy are who we turn to for the answers. <p/> 
<br return> In the first section of this reading, **_Pre-Classical Ideas on History,_** I found it quite interesting to think that with early philosophers and thinkers, they found ways to incorporate their religious beliefs into their view and explanations of history. Although this is not entirely surprising, given the conversation we had in class recently about the ‘agenda’ history textbooks carry and how history is taught in schools, specifically in the United States; the same can be applied to how ancient civilizations viewed and understood the world they inhabited, and that is that they had an explanations for everything around them and their existence, and it was centered around their Christian beliefs. <p/> 
<br return>  One aspect that really gauged my interest was the idea that we try and understand our world and history from the outside, meaning, we separate ourselves as beings from the universe as a whole rather than include ourselves in the equation or existence of it.
 <br return> In the second section of this readings, classical Greek and roman speculations on history, it was interesting to see how a shift in ideology of history and how humans viewed history from mythical to ideological. It was even more intriguing to read that Lemon suggested that some believe this shift in ideologies has something to do with civilizations shifting from living in rural areas to living in cities. <p/>This concept had me thinking about how we are taught about progress in history books. Progress is always marked by urbanization and expansion as well as the use of tools and science, yet, civilizations that did not have this were seen as lacking progress and savage-like. This is a completely different view of the earliest ancestors at the beginning of the reading and how they viewed their history. They were much more connected to the land and that their existence, history and progress was the peak of what they needed to achieve as a society simply because they existed. This is a far cry from what history teaches us now in that we look to the past to view progression and how as a society we can keep that progression moving forward. 
