These readings made me realize that, despite devoting so much time to the study of history, I do not spend nearly enough time reflecting on the thought processes of the past.  Thinking about how people interacted, or failed to interact, with their own history, based on their understanding of nature, time, astronomy, and biology, opens up many avenues of inquiry beyond our current focus on historiography.  
	
Lemon states that “a mythical view of space and time” was one of the key ways in which ancient peoples viewed the past.  Aspects of this “mythical view” have reached the present through mythological narratives from throughout the world.  These tales often still resonate with us, and also give greater understanding of the belief systems and social mores of the time and place of their origin.  They can also offer us insight into the minds of those who created and propagated these myths.  The search for meaning, purpose, and structure, in the face of seemingly incomprehensible natural forces, can be seen throughout the mythological landscape.  The vast creativity of these myths leads to many questions about the minds of ancient people.  Was their vision of the world around them fantastical enough that stories of gods and goddesses made fitting additions?  It is probably not that simple.  Lemon makes it clear that we still incorporate the mythic into our everyday lives, although in a more mundane fashion.

An aspect of the mythic view point, which survived into the Greek historical tradition, was the concept that the world moved in cycles.  There are so many facets of this concept that fascinate me.  First, it is a very clear instance of people taking concepts with which they are familiar, such as seasonal changes, the movement of the sun and the stars, and their own life cycles, and adapting them to explain concepts for which they had no tangible knowledge.  The theory that this worldview prevented the belief in the concept of human progress from taking hold for so long is an interesting one.  

More interesting is the fact people never believed themselves to be living in the  “golden age” of their current cycle.  These periods were reserved for either a real or mythic past, while people living in the present existed in a period of decay, before the inevitable collapse and rebirth of civilization.  While the modern study of history has, for the most part, escaped from the trap of placing the past on a pedestal, we as individuals have not.  Nostalgia for our own past remains strong, and nothing, whether it be movies, music, or appliances, are made as well as they once were.
