### *Pre-Classical Thoughts:* Mesopotamians, Egyptians, & Greece/Rome

These sections of readings really appealed to my personal interests as I have studied the ancient Mesopotamians, Egyptians, and Greek/Romans before. The previous classes I had taken before revolved around religion and science -*which is more or less exactly what was discussed here*-so I found I had a good foundation when approaching Lemon’s argument. The idea of time passing as a cycle or a re-enactment was a concept that I struggled to wrap my head around. On one hand, I can see **obvious cycles in nature**, just as the ancients would have, but I also had my **westernized background** telling me that ever unit of time is uniquely it’s own so nothing is ever repeated. So on a **micro** scale I don’t agree with this concept. But what if we took this concept to a universal -**macro**- scale? *Our plant will eventually be destroyed by the sun and after billions of years; will it reform it’s foundations and eventually sustain life again?* I believe there might be real credence to this idea because of the evidence of cycle-based nature around us and **we must not forget our role as an animal in nature**. This idea can be expanded to the Greek and Roman’s understanding of *genesis, growth, decay* and even *child to adult to elder* understandings of our body cycles. *In this theory there is both a cycle and an idea of progression which means time can not be understood as liner on an individual level but on a societal level time is linear*. And while Lemon touches upon this topic, it seems these theories throughout the ages **complement** each other while.

Another aspect Lemon writes about is our the ancient’s idea of time either is based on **religious principals** or cannot be separated from religious principles. This concept shocked me as I knew religion had played a large role in the past but to fundamentally be apart of the creation of the lens through which we view the passing of time (history), *was not something I expected*. For example, Lemon states that there was a **“moral force”** judging Greeks/Romans and according to this force they would enjoy **“fortune”** in this life or the next which directly corresponds to an acknowledgement of the passing of time (34). Likewise, in Mesopotamia, the *cycles exist to be repeated* and humans must play the proper part in perfectly re-enacting this cycles, least they anger the **gods**(21). *I wonder how our concepts of time would have evolved in an environment where religion wasn’t a dominating influence? More so, is it possible for humans to develop without creating religion? If religion and our lens-of-time are linked does the passing of time create religion based about that understanding or does the religion create the lens through which we view time?* 
