# *Pre-Classical and Greek Ideas*

These two chapters were very interesting and to be honest made me question the ways in which I have studied history. What Lemon is doing in these chapters is going over the ideas of history and its existence before the ideas of a philosophy or historical thought. In many scenarios and examples, he uses the idea of historical thought rests on us as the readers to appreciate and accept history back then so we can answer the questions of the future. 

While reading through the first chapter titled *Pre-Classical Ideas on History* Lemon dose a great job of interpreting and explaining the ways in which early thinkers of history and philosophers used methods to preserve and tell history. One of the more particular methods used was their *religious beliefs* and the way they *interpreted stories*. Lemon explains that, “Cleary if times had been particularly bad, good, or turbulent, they would be recorded – but no “explanations” would be sought (as in modern history) other then celebrating or bemoaning their “fate” at the hands of the Gods.” (p. 20) Because of religion many people of that time felt that if there was a freak accident in the world like an earthquake, tornado, plague, of times of war and prosperity it was all in the name and acts of God. What really caught my attention was the act of explanations. Lemon gives us another example by saying, “Now, what concerns us here is not whether, I telling a ‘story’, a particular narrative s fictional or factual, but that narrating a story is a vehicle or form of explanation – and what seems clear is that ancient peoples’ view of the world necessitated their explaining what happened in it by putting events into a narrative structure.” (p. 21). The approach and telling of the stories of history held people understand the world they live and the land they prospered on, while also explaining the meaning as to why they were here at this time and give meaning to all that exists around them. 

In the second chapter titled *Classical Greek and Roman Speculations in History* really broke down how people changed their ideologies and beliefs in history due to the growth of mythical leaders and creators. Lemon says that this *Cycles ideology* showed us that the way people would view space and time is affected on the ways the move and grow in time which would shift their views. 
