### Primitive Mentality ###

I found Lemon's views on ancient civilizations and primitive mentality and the lack of recorded history to be very interesting. As Lemon said what was written down or left behind was very mythical and imaginative. There are many ways in which one could view history and how it began and manifested but what I found to be most interesting is the concept of "'history of mankind' as having started in 'childhood'" (pg. 31). This way of thinking I do not agree with, and I feel that Lemon was on the fence about this as well. The concept that nature was not "it" but "thou" I feel plays into the fact that they did not view events in the same way that we do today or have in the past few centuries. This point of view also changes how one records history and these peoples used nature as a part of their history as a way to mark certain times. The biggest issue that I feel Lemon has is imagination. However, from this imagination and lack of change, there is a philosophy that arises that he recognizes. The way ancient civilizations recorded history was through nature. Through things like the rising and the setting of the sun or moon, they recorded what they believed to be the beginning and the end.

### Cycles ###

The Greek-Roman period introduces the foundations of history that were used for centuries and even today. These concepts that Lemon introduces challenge the way that I perceive and look at history looking through an ancient civilization and philosophical lens.  Once the Greek-Roman period is reached the time to record and recognize not the lack of progress of primitive civilizations but the lack of importance that progress has to civilizations a whole. The idea that ancient civilizations had  "no notion of 'historical progress,' and consequently no belief in it" does not seem correct (pg. 38).  Everything necessary to ancient civilizations comes together with the Greek and Romans taking and developing these cycles that are represented in ancient civilizations religious beliefs and connection to nature. In this course, looking at history through the lens of it being a cycle seems to simplify a complex system of individual histories that come together and create a history that is looked at through multiple lenses. In *What is Historiography*, there is a mention of imagination in students, and that is interesting to see that imagination is a big part of ancient history. 
