Corey Price
9-14-19
HIST 491
+Commenting the intro guide of historiography:
I don’t think that early college students can learn the basics of historiography from this kind of resource.  The very concept of historiography causes some confusion for most people. On one hand, it’s a study of history itself, a history of history. On the other hand, in the more literal sense of the word, it’s the act of writing history.  While reading history often seems like an adventure into the past, it never fully leaves the present.  In studying history, doubt is not only healthy, but necessary to the pursuit of ‘truth’. Sometimes, when presented with such differing perspectives, seemingly equal in their burden of ‘facts’, truth becomes more tangible with the critical study of history. Most important to this is the evaluation of narrative and an understanding of selective memory.  In layman’s terms, historiography is the ‘history of history’. However, this simple understanding of the field only scrapes the surface of its intricacy and importance. Its study is far more than chronology, reaching beyond the tabling of dates and events. Historiography delves into the intricacies that make up the historical record.  The key features would be studying the history of history by presenting it in the form that a twelfth grader would understand.  Critical thought exists as the truest and most reliable approach to history. As a policy decision, institutions of education should address the duplicity of historiography, and do so from a young age.  The intent of this collection is modest but relevant to students of history and to the evaluation of historical narrative. Through the dissection of historiography, our team has compiled a series of topics and paradigms in which one should analyze history. These themes are either central to the study of historiography (and would be remiss without them), or cover areas believed to be lacking in the academic field (and are sorely needed for its improvement).  There are certain topics that simply cannot be overlooked in a text of history’s history. Among the more traditional topics that are overlooked are ancient historians and the methodology of some of civilization’s earliest historiography.  If the intro guide to historiography can be presented in a simpler form, then it would be a great tool in helping students in reimaging what history is. Historiography is not only the physical writing of history, but also the nuance of stories and conglomeration of perspectives.
