### Comments on the Intro Guide


The intro guide to historiography is excellent for early college students and can be very helpful to those beginning to start historiography. The intro has many different levels and breaks down the multiple subpoints of Historiography. Many of the essays begin with just the basics of historiography and what that entails and set the scene for what they will talk about in further detail like the renaissance or antiquity. Having just the basics before going into further detail helps the reader set the stage, and while it does give much information, it is doing it in a way that is conducive to learning by allowing the reader to make connections. The layout of the essays is beneficial and presents the information in an organized way. The book by Lemon is excellent, but having something that is written by students and for students leaves a little more open to interpretation and allows for connections and other observations to be made. The in-class discussions we have bring up other intellectuals that are not mentioned by Lemon and having a resource like this allows that to happen. 

Having a resource like this will help students reimagine what history is and what history has been over the centuries from antiquity to now.  The intro guide puts into terms what we know of history and how we should be looking deeper into history by looking at how history is studied to who wrote a particular history and why. Historiography is reimagining history, and the way it is studied and the different intro guides break that down by analyzing other societal changes going on at that time and how they affect history and the way it was written.

### Key Features
Some of the key features should be the different historical periods like early modern and renaissance. The intro guide already has this and covers the periods mentioned, but explores more than what Lemon covers. Another critical feature should be the formatting; it makes it easier to read what is essential and draws your eye to the information that is being covered but in more detail. Another critical feature that I would keep is the __images folder__. However, there should be context to the pictures like why are they important to the guide because if you are looking just at the intro guide and not reading Lemon, the readers will not connect the pictures to there importance to the study of historiography. 
