## Commentary on the Historiography Intro Guide

Even for the most enthusiastic first year student, historiography can be an intimidating, if not utterly confounding, subject.  Therefore, a resource such as the “intro-guide” currently in production, might prove invaluable to those first coming into contact with the underlying theories of historical thought.  I believe that key to its usefulness will be accessibility, and the ease at which students can interact with the content.  There is a danger in the guide becoming a series of text blocks, as this makes little use of the unique capabilities of a web-based guide.  The incorporation of video, audio, linked content, etc. might allow students to engage with historiography on a more comfortable, if somewhat superficial, level, before diving into the denser content.

Keeping things on the shallow side, the current guide might benefit from having a series of shorter essays that will engage students with the subject matter in a more relaxed style, one that could take their own historical knowledge base, and use it to help them contextualize the importance of historiography in their future studies.  For example, when going through the guide’s index, seeing the _Film_ heading immediately captured my imagination.  I began to think about cinema as a tool of historical preservation.  Movies that capture, intentionally, or unintentionally, important moments in time.  Then I began to think about the potential uses and misuses of these artifacts in the study of history.  And all of this stemmed from reading a single word.

There are a few issues I have with overall layout of the guide.  First, there is an inconsistency when it comes the use of bold fonts.  In some essays, they are used to denote important people or events, and in others they are used for the entirety of key passages.  A unified method of bolding would make it a more useful tool to students.  I would choose the more limited use of highlighting key nouns which warrant further investigation and understanding.  Highlighting entire passages seems a bit much.  If the guide is for college students, their reading comprehension should be at a level where they will be able to pick out the most important passages on their own. 

The other layout concern is how the essays are categorized.  The _Thematic_ category is full of essays about topics that do not exist out of time, and could still fit into the framework of the chronological order of the previous categories.  _Film_ is very much limited to the past century, _and Marxism_ and _Professionalism_ arose in a very specific time and place.  My interest in moving them comes from a fear that the _Thematic_ category might grow too large, eventually devolving into a miscellaneous dumping ground for content, which student will ignore, and thus miss out on all the value work contained within.
