  ## **An Innovative Interlude** ## 

<p> This chapter primarily focuses on Giambattista Vico and why many scholars have disputed over his deserving of the recognition of the title of ‘first philosopher of history’(107). Although it was interesting to read and gain a better understanding of Vico, someone I was unfamiliar with, and the climate in which his way of thinking about history and what defined the study of history; at least in his viewpoint and those philosophers who shared in those views came to fruition, what is an even more interesting concept to think about is how the study of history has evolved from the 17th century to how it is defined today.<p> 
   <p>As students of history, we are always taught to look at the past through a certain lens; a critical lens and try to make sense of what we know about the past to either understand our present better or prevent the past from repeating itself. In other words, learn from the past to improve our future. This is the standard of today, but this was by no means the standard of the time that Vico was alive or even decades before. <p>
  <p>In class last week, we talked about the question of, “would it be possible to leave religion out of history?” And for the majority, the answer was no. It is not possible to study history and not add the religious elements of it. This is something that we as a society in the 21st century have come to accept, as most conflicts, or driving forces behind some of the most crucial parts of history can be traced to religion. But what if the opposite was posed? What if history would only be acceptable as truth if a religious element was tied into the truth? Would we still be able to study history the same way? That’s what I found most interesting about this chapter and the philosophers it highlighted. During the scientific revolution, and even past that period, the definition that we have of the discipline of history was being formed and new answers were being sought to explain the past. These philosophers were thinking of the world they lived in from the perspective of practicality rather than God or religion being the answer to everything. In doing so however, the discipline of history, would start off as something that symbolizes not only a new way of thinking, but also as turning away from religion. But had these philosophers not challenged the ‘old’ ways of thinking or forming their own opinions and views of the past through science and other practical means, would religion still be the answer to our past and what is accepted as being the truth of it?<p> 


