# History: Philosophy or Science
### Scientific Thinkers
**The Scientific Revolution** contested the idea of traditional knowledge and methods attempting to popularize the ideas of rationalism or empiricism. The movement brought growth to the _understanding of the natural world_, claiming that this knowldge brought some closer to God (pg110). By understanding the world God has created they could further explain their purpose within it in a way beyond that of the church. Cementing their status as a heretic by stating such rebellious thoughts they branched to created a new sect of thought. Philosophy and science were dividing and expanding upon themselves. History was influenced by the idea of methods. Systematic methods to find and understand history that still define us today. Is history a science or a philosophy? Or is history a bigger combination than any classical subject we know of now (i.e. biology, geometry, physics, etc.)? In order to understand history, historians do massive amounts of research and analysis of primary documents, even secondary documetns, in order to gain an understanding of how people thought in the past.The goal at the end of most research is to find **'the truth'** or **purpose** and **meaning** of the study subject (pg 107). Thus is the purpose of history as defined by Vico, one of the first philosophers of history. His influnce from the scientific method and thought provoked during his time brought new methods that rejected traditional methods and causes myself to wonder how this tradition of rejections still affects us.

### Rejecting Traditions
As a person I find great frustration in the current state of public education. We mandate a certain amount of material be taught in the exact same way. We promot **regurgitation and rececitation** over actually understanding of what the subjects purpose in life is. History for so many is a methodology of understanding key events that happened in the past and are defined by those who came before us, the victors to some. _How did this scientific approach to history promote the ideas that history has a truth and a concrete answer to an exam? Should there be a concrete answer easy to define on an exam?_ The questions being asked by the people during the Scientific Revolution are still asked today. How does the world work and why are humans in it? Rationalizing these thoughts bring us to the idea that everything must have an answer in order to either make sense or have a place in society. I wonder if there was more emphasis on philosophy if this would actually be the case. If moving away from "traditional" aquisition of knowledge would change the outlook on history.
