## Chapter 6, Comments: An Innovative Interlude 

In this section of reading, Lemon discusses how then **Vico** became known as the first real philosopher of history. To justify this statement, Lemon spends the rest of the chapter describing the circumstances of Vico’s life and the society he was living in under the wake of the **Scientific Revolution**. I agree with Lemon’s point, “it would be wrong to conclude our first real philosopher of history’s ideas sprang from nowhere” **(107)**, because learning the context of an era is important to understanding the men created from it. However, I am dissatisfied that Lemon really only refers to Vico at the beginning and end of the chapter and expects a reader to make connections with information not directly written about. 

What was particularly interesting about this chapter was Lemon’s discussion of the **Scientific Revolution**, **the Church**, and how these two concepts *wrangled with each other*. In the past, the Church had shunned scientific observations from **Aristotle** but by the 1600’s the Church supported Aristotle’s astronomy theories and encouraged such theories through **medieval scholasticism**. However, the Scientific Revolution sought to overthrow such theories and in doing so, *made an enemy of the Church, Aristotelians, and even the humanists of the Renaissance* **(110)**. This concept is fascinating because in the overthrowing of previous ideas we can see a **cycle** of new ideas, rejection, acceptance, degradation, and new ideas. *We have established previous theories of cycles in relation to history, empires, and life, but now Lemon is introducing the theories of idea cycles*.

With the rise of the Scientific Revolution came a **faith crisis** whereby men had to justify to themselves the acceptance of God with the new information coming out of science. Lemon states that such a theory that justified both ideas was the theory of the **Watchmaker (120)**. It is this theory among others that Vico would have been exposed to and considered when writing his book, *New Science*. Vico would have to consider all of his surroundings in an act of *historicism*. Thus, Vico is unique in that he compares the human condition and what that means to historical study. I believe this approach to studying history is the *correct one*; we cannot rely entirely on the empiricists nor on speculations. To put the human experience first and incorporate philosophy is to cover most of human history with a anthropomorphic lens on. As Vico suggests this should be the “historical method” utilized as the industry’s standard.
