# INNOVATIVE INTERLUDE

1. **Empiricism and rationalism** were two innovations of philosophy in the scientific revolution. Both of these innovations were based on finding the _truth._ **Empiricism** methodology was based on actual observation and repeatable experiments (Lemon, pg 112). **Rationalism,** as agreed upon by _Descartes and Hobbes,_ method was to doubt everything and logically work step by step(from a indisputable beginning). Both of these innovations valued _history,_ but Empirism didn't agree with deducing any speculative framework from it. With these two innovations focused on the truth, why would their purpose of history be so different?

2. _The Scientific Revolution_ brought up a lot of questions and doubts about Christianity. Even in today's world the question of God's existence is a daily debate. **Isaac Newton, Hobbes,** and others agreed on the analogy of _God_ as the great watchmaker. He designed the watch and has intimate knowledge of how it works. Once it, the earth and mankind, was made to his satisfaction he started it in motion (Lemon, pg 120-121). This idea didn't clash with the religious view of creation, but the idea of miracles muddied the water. Did the presence of miracles make it impossible for science to defy the existence of God?

3. Another argument with the religion in this time was the language used in the _Bible._ The question of whether to take the world used as literal or if what God is trying to say is something that our finite minds can't understand. From this it is but a short step to treat the Bible merely as a historically conditioned set of writing, even if in some sense divinely inspired (Lemon, pg 122). With all of this in mind does this change how we look at the _Bible_ as a historical source? Did this thinking change the meaning of how people looked at the _Bible?_

4. With the last two questions in mind do you think science and philosophy would have progressed, in those times, without the great minds trying to prove or disprove religion?  
