## Ranke

Like other before him **Leopold Ranke** put his own twist on what on he looked at history and how it should be viewed. Unlike most before him Ranke wanted a more clear cut, straight forward approach. He believed that _history has simply to show "what actually happened."_ (Gil, pg 384) The historians job is to only report on the cold, hard facts and only those. He didn't believe on historians taking liberties with the past and taking liberties with their opinion to influence the future. _The historian's objectivity means that the historian should not judge the past. Neither has he or she to instruct the present for the benefit of the future. (Gil, pg 384) His seemingly straight forward approach was painted, in the reading by Gil, as somewhat robotic. It was purposed that Ranke's theory was strictly black and white with there being facts of history and then everything else.

I was little confused on what made Ranke so special from the first part of the reading. I was happy to keep on reading and see that Ranke expounded on his stiff stance on history and addressed the logical process. _Historical process, which Ranke would not deny, is always to be specified. Ranke avoids applying the concept of progress and prefers to affirm the individuality and uniqueness of each epoch._ (Gil, pg 391) Instead of grouping history as a whole he wanted to look at the specifics of each situation. He didn't put the progess of society in a law of science where if X happens then Y will. I agreed with his overall theory and thought I had a good understanding of his basic agruement until the next reading, which filled in the blank spots I didn't where there.

The main thing to take away from Ranke seemed to be his colorless outlook of history where facts need only to survive and sources need to be completely vetted. The second reading, by Popkin, dived deeper into Ranke's influence on history as we know it today. His emphasis on history a purely academic discipline created a spot in universities. This contribution can't be overlooked, especially by us history majors, as it made a whole new road when studying history. This step, while important, was one that lead to an even bigger idea of nationalism.

In Popkin's material we look at the Revolutions through history and the idea that Nationalism played in those actions. The one mention that stuck in my head was when he mentions how the German's fought to keep their historical identity. _Historians in turn sw the writing of nations history as their most important task._ (Popkin, pg 82) Looking at steps that Ranke set in motion it is clear his place in history for history is cemented. He made history a place in the academic world and that in turn put a nations history in school which led to nationalism across the world. I felt that the second reading by Popkin was more promotional of Ranke's accomplishments. Gil presented Ranke's ideas in a robitic or stiff way while Popkin seemed to to celebrate the new era he ushered in. It was also a nice change of pace to here from someone who wasn't trying to find some deeper meaning into things that don't really need to investigated, sometimes. 
