# Leopold von Ranke 
**Ranke (1795-1886)** championed objective writing based on source material and established the study of history as a major university discipline. Gutenberg is usually cited as the inventor of the printing press. This technology was revolutionary, enabling the mass production of books and the rapid dissemination of knowledge throughout Europe. Why did it take three-hundred plus years for a scholar to ‘discover’ or implement sourced material? The University of Bologna in Italy, was founded in 1088. To say that for over seven-hundred years not one scholar thought of employing Ranke’s methods seems almost ridiculous to me, however, my biases are heavily swayed by the time in which I live.  
Ranke was probably the most important historian to shape the historical profession as it emerged in Europe and the United States in the late 19th century. As it seems, Ranke is highly important to us ‘historians’, so why is it that it took until my last history course in college to hear about him? Someone as influential as he should be given credit by high school history teachers, or at a minimum, 100-200 level courses should at least mention him. 
He was able to implement the seminar teaching method in his classroom and focused on archival research and analysis of historical documents. This is the way in which all historical research is done in the twenty-first century. I cannot imagine if we as students still relied on interpretations from ‘old literature’ instead of correlation and triangulation of primary sourced documents.  
Ranke set the standards for much of later historical writing, introducing such ideas as reliance on primary sources, empiricism, philology, and an emphasis on narrative history, especially international politics. This makes total sense, if you want to get along with those of other nations, you might want to try and understand them verses judging them through some racial or otherwise, uneducated opinion loosely based on ‘some old dude’s writings’ that you kind of agree with due to some bias or another.
In 1824, Ranke launched his career with the book ‘Histories of the Latin and Teutonic Peoples from 1494 to 1514’ He used primary sources/first-hand accounts and philology, incorporating documents instead of ‘old and exotic literature’. If one actually wants to ‘know’ what happened, you might want to ask those who were there. 
Ranke criticized the Hegelian view of history as being a one-size-fits-all approach. Ranke objected to philosophy of history as practiced by Hegel. Ranke claimed that Hegel ignored the role of human agency in history which was too essential to be characterized through only one idea or one word. This conflict between ‘new and old’ has been evident since the readings of Machiavelli, Vico, and Condorcet just to name a few. I appreciate the fact that Ranke is more interested in historical truths being extracted from sourced documentation rather than formulating some broad/umbrella theory based on opinion and interpretation. #
Ranke became the first historian to utilize the forty-seven volumes that comprised the diplomatic archives of Venice from the 16th century and 17th centuries. Since many archives opened up during this time, he sent out his students to these places to recruit information. In his classrooms, he would discuss the sources that his students would find and would emphasize that history should be told the way it happened. Because of this, he is often seen as the pioneer of a critical historical science. Ranke came to prefer dealing with primary sources as opposed to secondary sources during this time.
Nineteenth-century scholars did however agree on one thing, women were inferior to men. Not simply with their biology, but with their intellect (p.90). They even had women onboard with this nonsense such as M.A. Stodart who was a British author who stated that *“women’s minds were not fit to instruct others”* (p.90-91).  For people to be so blinded by a difference of chromosomes is absurd, I am thankful we live in a time where that has drastically begun to dissipate.   
