## Questions from The 19th Century and the Rise of Academic Scholarship
- On **Page 90** Popkin States "The American revolutionaries claimed to be forging a new nation, one that by definition was not rooted in history. The French revolutionaries, imbued with the optimistic spirit of the Enlightenment, also rejected the authority of the past. 'Don't try to follow the conduct of your ancestors, they had no principles to follow,' one of their leading spokesmen wrote, urging his fellow citizens to 'consult only good sense, which is the same in all countries and all epochs, and the law of nature." The Enlightenment therefore completely contridicted the Renaissance which tried to utilize the past to propel the future. Which time period is seen as more influential in the history of the world and does their view of history affect that?
- The nationalist framework for writing influenced the writing of history all around the world in the 18th century. The history we read today was greatly affected by nationalism and it affects what we value about history now. How would our perspectives change had nationalism not permiated the historical society in the 18th and 19th centuries?
- On **Page 84** it says, "Whereas French nationalist historians like Michelet were convinced that the experience of the revolution of 1789 made their country uniquely qualified to show the rest of the world the road to historical progress...". How do we as academics today view our experiences or our identity as Americans as a right to interperet history in a certain way? How are we biased in our views of history? Does our academic perspective cause our view of history to be noticably different than the average American? 
