### Questions from *Thomas Gil, “Leopold Ranke”, 383-92.*

1.) Thomas Gil describes Leopold Ranke as a professional historian and founder of the scientific method approach to studying and understanding history. His purpose was to methodically analyze known evidence to provide a non-speculative, rational approach to “find out what really happened” (383). Is this scientific method approach of studying history any more or less valid (or biased) than Hegel’s approach of speculative philosophy in the aim of studying truth in history objectively? 

2.) Contrary to Niebuhr’s historiography, Ranke believed historiography should be examined in a holistic framework, not disregarding the details but rather relating details to a grander scheme. Gil states that for Ranke, his goal was to was to “try to understand the whole, in an act of “geistige apperception” (spiritual apperception), only then, the material process of history can appear as a “Hieroglyph Gottes” (“God’s secret writing”), and the historian can describe the dominating trends and governing ideas that make up its real texture and continuity” (388).  Is this to say that for Ranke, human intellect would never reach the capability to conceive, articulate, or comprehend the texture and continuity of historiography in a concrete way? 

3.) Ranke believed that defining the complex historical process of world history into ‘concepts’ was arbitrary. He believed this method was the philosopher’s way of conceiving of history in a “logical process”. Furthermore, he believed that this logical process leaded to “pantheism” (historical progress). Does the creation of concepts to conceive of history lead us to believe in pantheism? How do the theoretical frameworks of study between philosophers and historians change the meaning behind history?

4.) As art is perceived differently in the eyes its viewers, how would Ranke reconcile the inconsistency of the meaning of history through individual spiritual apperception with his stance on historical continuity?
