# Questions: Leopold Von Ranke Reading

-	**Jeremy Popkin states** “…that new methods were enabling them to understand the past with an accuracy that their predecessors had never obtained **(70)**.” Do you think accuracy should be the foundational goal of history? Is there a shift in historical thought were accuracy becomes important? How do we define what’s considered accurate?
-	**Jeremy Popkin** raises the issue of historical novels and films on page **75**. Do film makers and novelists have an obligation to be as “accurate” as possible when depicting the past? Should these creators respect the past and cultivate “correct” ideas of history? OR should they change the past, when necessary, to interest viewers and spread a historical message that otherwise would not be heard?
-	Throughout the reading of “*The 19th Century Rise and Fall of Academic Scholarship*”, the idea that every era, location, society, and nation should be treated independently in the context of its time occurs as the founding principle of 19th century historical methodology. This implies that histories are individual stories rather than one great overarching universal story. If this is the case, can we still claim history is linear or cyclical? Does one theory make more sense now? Is the idea of “progression” still prevalent if each era, location, society, and nation is treated separately?
-	**Thomas Gil** states on page **388** that “Ranke believed in a divine purpose which he associated with world history…the idea of a developmental totality.” However, earlier in the article, we see Ranke defined by objectiveness and neutrality towards historical scholarship. How do you think Ranke reconciled these two halves of his ideology? How would Ranke see himself in the grander scheme of the universe?
-	**Thomas Gil** speaks of Ranke’s disdain for “trends” in history **(390)**. Are “trends” important distinguishers of historical periods? OR are they irrelevant to the grand totality of history? How do we define “trends”? And under what criteria are some “trends” more important than other “trends”? 
