### Four World-Monarchies Myth and its role in cyclical concepts of time ###
This chapter explains that the later Romans, faced increasing “constitutional stability” (45), began to look outside of political cycles within a singular city-state. Instead, they considered a larger idea of cyclical history, reflecting instead on “the larger (thus potentially more speculative) theme of the rise and fall of entire states and, indeed, empires” (45-46). This lead to the myth (or concept) of four world monarchies. Different philosophers and ‘great thinkers’ listed different monarchies, but the main divide was whether to place Rome as the fourth monarchy, therefore open to the inevitable decay of the former three or to instead consider some as a perfect, eternal fifth empire. Some believed that Rome, so long-lasting, was ‘Rome eternal’, and because of this, signified the end of history. However, many did not feel this way, and the four-monarchies myth continued to contribute to the cyclical thinking of previous Graeco-Roman beliefs.

### Judeo-Christian apocalyptic concepts ###
Judeo-Christian **monotheism**, Lemon argues, provided the counterpart to Graeco-Roman presuppositions about history, and a large part of this was put into play by the concept of an apocalypse. Their God, considered a creator, was also thought of as the ‘Deliverer’, who would choose a time at his will to end history. This also included, at times, the concept of a messiah, a man of extraordinary ability who would bring about an age of bliss. Combining these two ideas, the Day of Judgement concept was formed, wherein the world would end for the undeserving and become eternal bliss for the believers. 

### The dichotomy and the arguments against it ###
The Graeco-Roman conceptualizations of history, as Lemon describes, differed significantly from those of the Judeo-Christian faith ~~or did they?~~. The Graeco-Romans viewed time primarily as **cyclical**, “in the grip of the natural, inevitable cycle of endless historical recurrence” (52). On the other hand, Judeo-Christians instead saw time as **linear**. This is because the faith story included a beginning (the creation), and an end (the deliverance). Endless recurrence of history, therefore, is not possible to believe when one also feels they “knew the end of the world and of history” (60). There are arguments against this, and Lemon cites two scholars Trompf and Nisbet. Nisbet, according to Lemon, “believes Christians built upon and *added* to Greek ideas of progress” (58), because in his opinion the Graeco-Romans were not consumed by the idea of solely cyclical histories. Trompf makes the same argument from the other side: that the Judeo-Christians lived in the same world as the Graeco-Romans, and continued to present historical recurrence in their understandings, albeit implying these ages to be progressive in some way. 

### Augustine’s City of Man and City of God ###
In his pursuit to discuss the interpretations of Augustine, Lemon buries the lead in terms of what kind of content Augustine actually wrote. The key, in my opinion, is Augustine’s ‘two cities’. Humans in this concept are born in the ‘City of Man’, “where aspirations of ‘the good life’ (wealth, pleasure, health) are defined by the managing of one’s affairs in the busy surrounding world” (61). This is kind of meant to be the trap of hedonistic pleasures, meant to make one forget about the more important goal, the ‘City of God’. This is “where the value of one’s being is measured not in terms of ‘actual’, earthly circumstances but in terms of the *spiritual qualities* of perfect love, justice, mercy, and faith” (61). 

### Relevance vs. Irrelevance of History ###
All of this chapter culminates in one central discussion: the relevance or irrelevance of history. Early on, Lemon argues that the Graeco-Romans considered history essentially irrelevant, stuck as they were in the endless cyclical philosophy of history. He does present some arguments against this, particularly from Nesbit who was more focused on the theological implications of the Judeo-Christians than the secular. There is also, however, an argument between scholars on the relevance Judeo-Christians themselves placed on history, mainly stemming from Augustine’s *City of God*. Many felt Augustine was not “a believer in historical progress” (63), because the ‘City of God’ was not a part of human history, rather the escape from it. On the other hand, the movement “towards the destruction of ‘the Earthy City’ and its replacement by ‘the City of God’ (64) was in its very essence a belief in the progress of history. It is clear, at least, that **no one knows what Augustine is talking about.**
