So I know this is not the assignment, but I wanted to add a couple more questions to the mix.
**Is quantitative history more than just quantitative methods?**
**Because each historical moment is unique, and because it is impossible to remove one historical variable without affecting other variables, does statistical analysis of history make sense?** Is it an effective method considering the above caveats?
It is clear that quantitative history increases the amount and format of data available to historians. However, it does not necessarily lead to better analysis. Consider the example in the Troup and Green piece where household data about grandmas living within the houses of their children does little to define her relationship as matriarch or burden. **How can we best bridge the gap between statistical data and its historical interpretation?**
Qualitative history can exist without quantitative history, but is the reverse possible? **Can we have quantitative history without traditional history?** As more and more data becomes available and digital history expands, will we ever be able to quantitative history without its qualitative counterpart? 
##### Is quantitative history fundamentally different from traditional history?
There are aspects of quantitative history that are integral to qualitative history. For example, the Troup and Green reading outlines examples of economic and population histories from hundreds of years before quantitative history got a foot hold. Any historical analysis considers some quantitative factors such as births, deaths, quantities, extents, etc. What makes quantitative history unique is its use of statistical analysis and modeling to predict and interpret history. 
##### To what extent will all history gradually become quantitative history? 
I feel that there will always be a place for traditional history because data has little power without traditional analysis and theory. Traditional history teaches us the theory necessary to ask good historical questions. It guides us to good sources and teaches us how to weigh and interpret the validity of data. Furthermore, traditional history gives us the tools needed to interpret quantitative history. For example, the Troup and Green reading points out that data can show us a narrow age gap between spouses, but quantitative history can not explain if that age gap describes a 'companionate' marriage or some other type of relationship. Quantitative analysis is one of many tools that historians can employ for their research, but I don't feel that it will ever be the only kind of history practiced. 
