### Quantitative Vs Regular history

When you break down history it is simply the study of past events. In that sense when looking at how **quantitative** and **regular** history they are no different. In terms of our last philospher, **Ranke**, things are looked at in an extreme micro version where every aspect of society is taken into account. This outlook was a step towards including every down to local town drunk. Quantitative history takes that a step further by putting everyone, even the town drunk, in a comprehensive data table. While the obvious differnce is one is about how everyone gets along and societies blend while the other uses each person as a data point. The outlook is different but the use is even more different. Regular history looks at what we can learn and take away from each situation. While each one is different we can still get a foundation of what will happen is a certain type of situation occurs. In quantitative history we look at hard numbers to know why things happened. 

While it may seem we have gotten away from old, white guys deciding what is it important we have stayed the course the whole time. The reading gives the example of election results in terms of quantitative history. Looking at how voted for who in what area, what age demographic, what gender demographic, and so on. This is information that any other than an old, white guy doesn't care about.

In the end I think the biggest difference for **quantitative** history is that is answer more specific questions rather than looking at **regular** history where historians look for trend. Quantitative history is like the shift in baseball or the run-option in football, it is trend that has proven to work and everyone is using it for their own gain. It is also popular because those old, white guys can bend the stats and find something or put a twist on that works for them. 

### Quantitative history taking over

As mentioned above quantitative history is a successful trend that everyone is jumping on board for. Humans around the world have grown accustomed to having information at our fingertips in a moments notice. It is simple as asking google to end an arguement. We have also become a society infactuated with numbers and stats. Wanting to know a celebrity's net worth or percentage of people who live in poverty in America are stats that every day people may want to know or get curious about. This again goes back to having access to this information within seconds. It is all these factors that quantitative history will take over and majority of our history will be presented in numbers and facts.

Also looking at the fact of how dependent society has become on computers it is a simple statement to say most of if not all of our history, in whatever form, will be dependent on computers to archive it. This makes me think of the show _Revolution_ where there is no electricity at all and everyone is knocked back to stone age. It shows how reliant we are on computers an technology for everyday use, why not depend on it for our history. 
