
Corey Price

10-5-19

HIST 491

Commenting 10-7 readings

For many years, historians have preferred to turn their attention to long periods, beneath the changes of political events, they were trying to show the stable, almost invulnerable system of checks and balances, the unchanging processes, the constant realignments, the core tendencies that gather forces, and are then suddenly changed after centuries of steadiness.  Despite appearances, we must not imagine that certain historical disciplines have moved from the constant to the irregular, while others have moved from the tangled mass of irregulars to the great, unbroken unities; we must not imagine that in the analysis of politics, institutions, or economics, we have become more and more sensitive to overall resolves, while in the analysis of ideas and of knowledge, we are paying more and more attention to the play of contrast.  In short, the history of thought, of knowledge, or philosophy, of literature seems to be seeking, and discovering, more and more contrasts, whereas history itself appears to be leaving behind the outbreak of events in favor of steady structures.  The use of ideas of irregularity, tear, tolerance, limit, series, and change present all historical analysis not only with questions of instruction, but with theoretical problems.  But there is a negative work to be carried out first: we must rid ourselves of a whole mass of ideas, each of which, in its own way, expands the theme of steadiness.  They may not have a very thorough theoretical structure, but they have a very precise function. We must ask ourselves what purpose is finally served by this withholding of all the accepted unities, if, in the end, we return to the unities that we pretended to question at the outset. This, then is the field to be covered; these ideas that we must put to the test and the assessments that we must carry out.

The selections that I chose are very interesting because it talks about how historian’s attention has always been focused on long periods of history rather than on changes happening within a short amount of time.  The selections I chosen also talk about how its best to forget about the use of controlled environments to find new knowledge and focus more on using irregular methods to find new discoveries of knowledge. The selections also say that the new ideas we have must be put to the test and be carried out.
