# Quantitative History 
1.	**Is quantitative history fundamentally different from ‘regular’ history?**

Margo Anderson stated “Quantitative  history  is  the  term  for  an  array of  skills  and  techniques  used  to  apply  the methods  of  statistical  data  analysis  to  the study of history” (p.246). According to Green and Troup, “almost all historical writing involves quantification” (p.141). So, they both involve statistical analysis, I would say they are essentially one in the same. Some quantitative studies focus on small groups of people; others encompass huge populations. The more time passes, the more technology enables us to quantify things such as history. Green and Troup said that all history is quantified either implicitly or explicitly. It is implicit when it is implied, but not directly stated, and explicit when it is directly stated and leaves no room for uncertainty. In ‘regular’ history the first real need for quantification was in the area of economics. This statistical implementation allowed people to predict, compare and contrast past-present-and-future happenings. Although, Floud would argue (p.143) that we can only incorporate a finite number of variables leaving us with flawed numbers. For one, humans cannot be relied on to remain at a constant state of ‘rationality’, and two, Mother Nature can always throw a ‘curve ball’ at any time. Based on the information gathered from the readings, history has always been recorded for the purpose of making a more promising future. Where ‘classical history’ may focus on a specific event, the event then becomes a component in some larger relative scheme and used for quantification. So, weather they realized it or not, all those who record history are quantifying some aspect that could later be used as data in a much larger pool where correlation becomes causation. 

2.	**To what extent will all history gradually become quantitative history (as sources are born-digital or become digitized)?** 

Since the birth of universities, libraries have been filled with scrolls, parchment, hardbacks, and now computer networks which contain every piece of historical and academic information we as humans can acquire. From inverse projection, to soft data, to content analysis, events are quantified through numbers that place weight on what is accepted and what is not, very broadly speaking. With computer programs triangulating, organizing, and categorizing data on massive-scales, all recorded history will eventually become quantitative history. 
