## Is quantitative history fundamentally different from ‘regular’ history?

No. Though it, and its methodology, is indisputably different from previous histories and means of creating history, are fundamentally concerned with the same aim: to reveal facts (or ‘truths’) about the past. The difference is that quantitative takes a much broader, yet ironically more specific, view of events. In many ways, it could only have arisen when it did, as historians began to look back at the preponderance of evidence about a long series of events, and simultaneously began to have access to new tools and means for analyzing the data that could thence be gleaned. The Anderson reading uses the example of presidential elections in the US, positing that conventional historians would deal with each election, perhaps not quite in isolation, but certainly in its own context, and devote their efforts to each in turn. Meanwhile, the quantitative historian would “consider a particular presidential election as one element in the universe of all presidential elections and are interested in patterns which characterize the universe or several units within it” (Anderson 246). Though the methods and end product may be very different between a conventional, or, for the purposes of this question and ensuing discussion, qualitative, historian and a quantitative one, their goals are the same, and their works can, and perhaps should, complement each other. 

## To what extent will all history gradually become quantitative history (as sources are born-digital or become digitized)?

Perhaps to a lesser extent than some, such as our professor, might expect. Certainly, the field will continue to expand, perhaps even to the point that it becomes more common that so-called “traditional history,” but I do not think that qualitative history will ever be entirely replaced. Rather, I think that qualitative history will begin to resemble quantitative more than it has, both in methods and in output, as both are created in a digital world. Presumably, the line between them will become more and more blurred, which in itself could be seen as all history becoming quantitative. However, I do not believe that qualitative history will ever entirely disappear. Indeed, for all we know, there could be a reactionary push back towards more “traditional” ways of producing history. We must also keep in mind that in the ever-more-likely scenario where modern civilization as we know it collapses entirely, then the historians who are left to publish handwritten accounts of their struggles to survive will resemble no one so much as the medieval chroniclers writing about how Viking attacks are a sign of God’s displeasure.
