## The Comparison of Quantitative History and Regular History 

### Is quantitative history fundamentally different from 'regular' history?
From the reading, I have gathered that there are no fundamental differences between quantitative history from regular history, although each has **different applications** that the other one cannot. For instance, more modern types of history and historical documentation would work well with quantitative history as most of the knowledge would have been written down electronically and is **numerically based**.
 As **Anderson** explains, the purpose of history is to describe and explain particular events as well as individual life ( pg 1). The approach to these questions is different between quantitative history and regular history. For example, let's say that there was a population rise at the turn of the high middle ages. A quantitative historian would look into the **accounts of births, deaths, food production, and economic factors** with the idea that the records of this are available. Although this information would tell us, then these variable changed, it would not necessarily tell us why. This would be something that a regular historian can say to us through with limits. By detailing causes such as **new technologies, possible alliances** with different empires. Although both types of histories can use documentation, from my perspective, regular history can show causes and why's while quantitative history can tell us the change over time of particular characteristics.

### To what extent will all history gradually become quantitative history (as sources are born-digital or become digitized)?
As we have seen during the duration of our education, there has continued to be a focus on technology and the use of digitized material. **There is no doubt** then that nearly all history might be digitized. This, of course, does not mean that everything can and will be scanned. It is undisputed that most modern history will be digitized and born-digital, as that is how technology has shaped modern society. However; there is ancient history, documents that cannot be scanned because of condition or because there is no written record. Even in a highly digitized society, we are still limited by what has and has not been recorded. 
For the sake of modern history, though, we can see that Anderson agrees with the idea that the account will become digitized. She says that 

> "By the early 1980s, about 40 percent of history graduate programs
> offered training in quantitative history as part of the graduate
> curriculum" ( pg 3).

 From this, we can also expect that the percentage has gone up. From what is digitized, there is also the argument if history should become more quantitative, and I believe that there may be a limited application of it for now. From the readings, examples were shown of how quantitative research is done through **computerized algorithms** to find variables and then to conduct reports based on that, yet it ignores how non-numerical history is made. There is still a lot of developing that quantitative research has to do, though, as I believe that, yes, we are turning more and more to digitized sources, but we should not rely on quantitative research when it comes to analysis. 
