#Regular History Vs. Quantitative History 

Quantitative History is a little different from *regular history*. When I look at quantitative history, I’m looking at statistical data, which historians use to back up ‘regular’ history. When looking at quantitative history I’m studying more of the people instead of the events that happened. Quantitative history studies history more as a whole than events studied individually. People argue that Quantitative History may be a better way of studying history because its more based on facts and numbers than what historians of the past right down. Some historians write down history to promote something that benefits themselves, and show little historical evidence, but I can see the same things with historians using quantitative history to promote thier self interest and bias as well. Both the *regular* way and Quantitative way can be bias. For example, in one of my classes called ‘History of Reproduction’ we looked at a graph that shows how many women have given birth in a hospital in the 1800’s.  When a historian measured the number of women, he was claiming that it was definite number. He had the agenda of promoting the hospital, so what he failed to mention is that this high number of women were white, and of upper class. He wasn’t counting the population as a whole 

Right now, I think that history is studied in both the *regular* way, and in quantitative because we still use old archives in researching even though that what may be in the archives are damaged, or slowly getting unreadable as the years pass, but now the great thing about technology is that we can take pictures and make these archives public, so that way we always have access to them. Digital pictures don’t age like the way paper pictures do. In the future, I think History will be fully Quantitative, but right now we are stuck in the middle because of our access to early archives, but as these archives get old or artifacts are destroyed because of age there will only be access to digital copies. To me, digital history isn’t history, and that’s the sad part of the future. We will know longer have these physical archives that we can personally go to, but that will be past my lifetime. Thank God. 

