### Regular History vs. Quantitative History 

'Regular' history is about the uniqueness of an event. It is about singular historical events. From reading both readings, quantitative history is about a larger picture. It is no longer about singular events but about the collective of unique events. Quantitative history combines all these events creating different information that historians seek to help answer specific questions.  This is a significant difference. Over the course, many of the people we have read about have stressed the importance of the uniqueness of historical events like Leopold Von Ranke. Considering this, I think that Quantitative history is fundamentally different from 'regular' history. However, at the same time, it is the same as 'regular' history. In both the Green and Anderson reading, there was a discussion about the inevitable gaps left by quantitative history. In this aspect, I think that it is like 'regular' history. History is full of gaps because of the biases; however, with quantitative history, I feel that these gaps are not so much because of bias as they are for lack of data.  In this way, quantitative history and 'regular history' are not so different. Looking at these two reasons, quantitative history is not so different from 'regular'  history. 

### Digitizing History

As things become digitized, all history will become part of the quantitative method. As we have seen, "quantitative methods in history have encouraged us to extended our range of historical sources and topics" (Green and Troupe, 148); this can be said for the digitizing of history. Having history accessible to a wide array of people using different methods will expand the field as well as information that can be learned from quantitative history.  According to Anderson, the "future of the field better today than it has been for many years" (pg. 258).  However, with digitizing, there is a disconnect. The main topic of discussion surrounding technology today is that it disconnects people from forming and having that  human connection, and with the digitization of history, that disconnect will happen. Quantitative history, I believe, adds to that disconnect because of a broad basis that it covers. The uniqueness of historical events adds to that human connection and breaking those events down into variables changes that dynamic. However, I feel that this will happen more in fields that deal with the economy or census history. As we saw in both readings, these groups use quantitative history the most, so with that said, not all branches of history will use those same methods. 
