## Quantitative History 
- Anna Green and Kathleen Troup, eds., The Houses of History, “Quantitative History”, 141-50; skim 151-71. 
- Margo Anderson, “Quantitative History”, 246-59.

1.) Is quantitative history fundamentally different from ‘regular’ history?

‘Regular history’ or classical historical research methodology “relies upon textual records, archival research and the narrative as a form of historical writing... the historian describes and explains particular phenomena and events, be they large epic analyses of the rise and fall of empires and nations, or the intimate biographical detail of an individual life” (246). Similar to classical history is quantitative history. Quantitative history, although sharing a similar goal, “takes as its subject the aggregate historical patterns of multiple events or phenomena” (246). Quantitative history differs than that of ‘regular history’ because its approach to study is using “social and statistical sciences” (247) to answer the “big questions about long-term historical patterns of change” (249) using historical data sets. I say that quantitative history is not fundamentally different than ‘regular history’ because although the methods of acquiring information to study and analyze information is very different, the goal to analyze information from one or many historical events aims to provide the historian with recognizable patterns of change over time to better the society at present. In quantitative history, data sets are combined together to form common occurrences or patterns of change over time whereas classical history allows the historian to study one particular event, person, empire, etc. and learn the significance of  change over time for that particular data point. Whether analyzing a data point or a data set, the methodologies to attain may differ between quantitative and ‘regular’ history but the goal  to recognize, discern, and predict human behavior based particular circumstances is the same. I would not say that they are fundamentally different. 

2.) To what extent will all history gradually become quantitative history (as sources are born-digital or become digitized)?

I think it is only a matter of time before all sources are digitalized and history is ‘quantified’ into digital archives. With this mass amount of information so easily accessible, quantitative history of various data sets of information will be much easier to study. It will be that the skill of isolation and the ability to discern or ‘sift’ through an abundance of information to study ‘normal’ history that will be a challenge for students of the next generation. 
