## Comments on Quantitative History
### Quantitative and "Regular" History
While the methodology, and interdisciplinary nature of quantitative history might seem jarring to the pracitioner of "traditional" history, it is not fundamentally a different discipline.  To put it in an overly simplistic manner, qualitative and quantitative history start on opposite ends of the micro and macro historical spectrum, then attempt to work their way to the same center point.  Whether it is through the detailed anaylsis of eight years of White House documents, or a mass analysis of job growth, polling data, and media engagement over the course of the same period, a historical understanding of an American presidency can be formed. If taken together, an even clearer picture comes into view.  

### The Potential Growth of Quantitative History
As tools for digital analysis become more efficient, and the modern world more and more throughly exists as a searchable database, quantitative historians will have increasingly more raw material with which to work.  This does not inherently mean that quantitative history will become more useful, or more integral to the overall future study of history.  Much like during previous technological advances in quantitative history, practicioners will need to learn new skills, and develop new practices in order to make sense of the data at their fingertips. 
#### The Individual versus the Algorithm
With the advent of social media, we now can see the lives of millions of individuals played out in detail online.  This may appear as a boon to future historians, but how would they make use of it?  What algorithms would be required?  How would they verify any of the individual pieces of data collected?  In recent years, Governments, corporations, and individuals have all become aware of the importance of their online existence, and their ability to use it to shape their own reality, and the outside world's perception of them.  Will any value be gained by the scanning of thousands of Instagram accounts, if there is no way to differentiate the authentic from the aspirational?  Newspapaers all over the world have been digitized, and even more purely digital news outlets have sprung up in the past twenty years.  Will a future mass analysis be swayed by the accidental inclusion of cleverly masqueraded state-run news sites?

#### Increased Specialization and Collaboration
None of the potential problems listed above are insurmountable.  In truth, they are most likely easy fixes for those who have a more intimate knowledge of the process of quantitative analysis.  In order to make use of all this information, quantitative historians might be required to become involved in increasing levels of specialization, which continue to require skillsets that might seem more and more alien to what we currently perceive the "study of history" to entail.  This require even more cooperation between quantiative historians and their more traditional counterparts, as increased specialization will lead to a weaken ability for larger analysis, synthesis, and interpetation of historal data.
