# Quantitative History and ‘Regular History’ # 
### Are they so different after all? ###
 - .. Drawing from the readings, **Quantitative history** is not necessarily fundamentally different than ‘regular history.’ My impression as I was reading, is that it is simply an extra tool in which to evaluate history and understand it from a different angle. Rather than looking at one single event or year, quantitative history takes data, statistics, social patterns, groups of people etc. in order to understand that same event or year in a more concentrated way. In other words, rather than just explaining what happened on a particular day or year/decade etc. based on written sources, quantitative historians will use the set of data that they have collected (i.e. census data, birth death and marriage certificates) and apply it to understanding repeated phenomena in history. With its’ emergence in the late 19th century to the current 21st century, quantitative history has also given way to new ways of preserving data and sources necessary to conduct quantitative research for history, and this was done out of necessity. 
- <p> .. The only thing that was not inherently clear to me as I was reading was, why is quantitative history considered to be different from a ‘regular’ approach to History? Shouldn’t the two complement one another for the study of History as a whole? There may never be a straight forward answer to this question either but it is a question that stuck in my mind from both readings, especially in the Anderson reading when she writes that, “All historians face the problems of missing data, and the difficulties of interpreting illegible, damaged, incomplete or destroyed records” (Anderson p.250).  In other words, no matter what sources or approaches a historian uses for understanding and/or explaining history, they are always going to run into problems with reliability of data and sources, so the two approaches to history, quantitative and ‘regular’ history are going to have flaws. One is not necessarily better than the other just because of the sources that they may have access to. 
###  Digitizing History? ###
- <p>.. The age in which we live in is one that is becoming increasingly reliant on technology for everyday conveniences. With that in mind, it begs the question of, to what extent will quantitative history be used as sources become more digitized? This question also does not have a straight-forward answer because, as we have discussed in class before, we would have to evaluate what we deem as a viable source for history especially as it pertains to digital content. For example, will old Facebook posts or Twitter feeds be considered a primary source because it is linked to a particular person? It is evident that there are some gray areas with digital content, but as it pertains to quantitative history, I think that the methods of quantitative history will be used even more in the future, however there will definitely be many obstacles with relying more on quantitative methods. This can include being able to differentiate between a reliable source or an altered source, as well as taking the human side out of history and instead, present different sets of data to explain historical phenomena.  
