# Quantitative VS. Classical History

- **Quantitative** array of skills and techniques used to apply the methods of statistical data analysis to the study of history arising in the 1950's and 1960's (Anderson, 246).

- **Classical** textual records, srchival research and the narrative as a form of historical writing to explain phenomena and events (Anderson, 246).

### Basics in Quatitative and Classical History
Fundamentally the difference between quantitative and "classical" history is very small. History itself is **_analysis of data and modern interpretations of how that history can benefit the current social enviornment_**. History is not just learning about the people of the past with no pratical applicaltion. Document being a broad term means that a statement of history only being researched through documents written in the past can include data, art, literature, diaries, policies, laws, and much more. These documents change the intention behind the research and study. Using records of height, weight, stature, and disease to understand the possible living conditions of the past helps those analyzing the political moves and social values that we interpret using "classical" historical analysis (Anderson, 249). Trend analysis is not separate from classical history, it is how we apply history beyond the classroom, beyond just a research papaer. 

When discussing the importance of history with people outside of the study their answers can vary with some arguing there is no importance and some realizing that it has to do with learning from the past as to not repeat it in the future. Fortunately we have thousands of years of mistakes and triumphs to learn from. The study done by Fogel discussed in both articles about the lack of importance the railway palyed in expanding agricultural transportation exvludes the importance the railways had socially. But someone who is studying the railway and westward expansion could use the his idea to separate themseleves from the known idea of imortance and seek what the other immpacts could have been. Transporting goods west meant transporting people west and contributed to claiminng more lands west in larger quatities than before. This is just one possible conclusion being left out in **conterfactual deduciton**, comparing the real situation with that predicted in the absence of a particular circumstance (Green, 142). 

### Will history become only quantitative?

If we continue to study ancient histories, classical literature, and other cultural documents from the distant past there will not be a way to get rid of the cultural impact that these documents still have from the past or the present. The people I have met who research history have very little interest in extracting quantitative from classical history, thus implying to me that this method will become more integrated the longer it is used or a more prominent fraction of historical study such as military or cultural historians. Even with anthropological research crossing over into historical analyses quantitative history will only add to the current state not take over history.
