# Quantitative history:
### *Is quantitative history fundamentally different from ‘regular’ history? To what extent will all history gradually become quantitative history (as sources are born-digital or become digitized)?*


Quantitative history is *fundamentally different* than traditional history in that it focuses **objectively on statistical numbers** that are available from a given time period or location. These numbers can shed insight into my questions Historians have at the time, however they are **limited to the numbers and empirical methods**. To include any subjective information in the calculation of quantitative history is to completely ruin the results of those calculations. However, subjective evidence is still vital to the grander understanding of the past and so to completely discount it, would do a Historian *no good* **(Green/Troup, 145)**. This leads me to the conclusion that *quantitative history is a great tool for Historians, but it should only be that: **a tool**.* I do **not** believe this should replace existing methods history but instead help to **supplement and perfect** practices currently. 
 
An example of quantitative history being fundamentally different than traditional history can be found in the results of the **WPA narratives**. When assessing the WPA narratives, a statistically large number of ex-slaves will recount that their time as a slave *“wasn’t so bad”*. The master punished justly, there was always food to be had, and communities were close. A quantitative historian would eventually conclude that **slavery as an institution also must be “not that bad.”** Yet a *traditionalist* historian would recognize that the numbers presented in the WPA narratives were skewed; the WPA narratives were recorded during the great depression, segregation, and KKK presence. This means elderly ex-slaves would more likely look to past as **favorable**: citing the abundance of food when presently they had no food. The interviewers of the WPA narratives were also white people and in a time of extreme segregation and racial tensions, the elderly black community were prone to not speak ill of their white masters to a white interviewer. 

Quantitative history has really taken hold of the historical community since the 1950s/1960s **(Anderson, 246)**. In the grand scheme of the totality of historical methodological tends, this places quantitative history immediately in our **present realm of influence**. Thus, it is safe to assume that quantitative historical practices will continue long into the future. Adding to this point, is the idea that more and more of our history is becoming digitalized so the *literal variables* involved with quantitative practices are increasing. A historical scientist has a problem when information is missing, but having too much information? **Is usually a good thing**. One could argue that quantitative history will fall out of fashion as it might be impossible to process the sheer amount of information created, but I believe our processing abilities will grow with the information. However, we must remember that quantitative history must be used alongside of traditional history to understand the *full story*.

