# Quantitative History

## Quantitative History vs. Regular History

After going over both of the readings I find that Quantitative History is very similar but not fully the same as regular history. It seems to be used as a **tool** used when we are evaluating history. An example of Quantitative History are lists of people and their existence in the world which would revolve around there “age, sex, occupation, maternal status and income”. **(p. 145)** it focuses more on the **statistical numbers** that are made up during a location and time during history as well. But because it is limited to that particular data it can’t fully grasp any subjective evidence on particular events we may study in regular history. Green and Troup explain that “we have seen that the technique can be controversial, the sources not as accurate as one hoped… and the interpretation are not as straight forward. Because Quantitative History will **overlook any subjective evidence** it would not be very helpful for certain answers to questions in history, but it should still be used as a tool but not replace the use of other methods in regular history.

## Non-digital vs. Digital

Today’s history not only revolves around the use of technology, but because it has grown fast in production of new equipment, how easy it is to access it and the data and recourses it holds to keeping history and files secure for a long time. We need to ask what part of Quantitative History will be able to use and make available digitally. We are leaving many of the traditional tools such as paper technology, or simply using a library filled with books as a resource. Anderson gives an exceptional review over the history of technology from 1885 forward on page **258**, but also makes me question the need for Quantitative History that will be digital? Like **Social Media** is a huge part of our lives, will posts that we may have put out on Twitter or Facebook back in 2010 be taken as history material in the future? Will pictures on Instagram Define our place and time in history? Because these little things are Quantitative History, and because they are a record of who we are as an individual and person who ‘could’ shape history its only seems logical to keep all those things as a record. But I still wonder how much of that information will help us in understanding and answering questing about history in the future? 
