### Sophisticated Nuance

There is certain amount of level of sophistication that is associated with the word **nuance**. Then with sophistication comes an illusion of progress, which disciplines like history, sociology, math, and so on use as a measuring stick for success. _Relatedly, there is a desire to equate calling for a more sophisticated approach to a theoretical problem with actually providing one, and to tie such calls to the alleged sophistication of the people making them._ (Healy, pg 5) The whole point that I that the article is making is that just because a new theory is dressed as nuance or sophisticated we need to be aware that a lot of that is window dressing or fluff. When we look into this new theory, at the nuts and bolts, we see how little progress is actually made. It is like eating a fancy restaurant. Sure the restaurant is sophisticated and I’m sure the steak is a prime cut of meat but what is really accomplished at the end of the night. You end paying $200 for a sliver of meat that barely amounts to a snack and leaves you unsatisfied and irritated for the time and resources lost. 

With the taste of wanting more as the underlying theme I think this article can definitely be associated with history. If sociology wasn’t mentioned as much I would have guessed that **historical developments** were in the cross hairs of this article. In new developments that get major attention we see small changes that have minor shifts in the overall narrative that is being presented. Then the founding members wanted to be praised for their contribution. To be fair this problem is not exclusive to history. We not only see this in modern sciences, but in daily life with the rise of social media. Also not every minor shift is inconsequential; there have been some that developments that have reshaped how events are viewed. It would beg the question of how necessary would a scale be to differentiate between fluff and game changing finds. 

### Model for Success

I do think there needs to be a model for which we _gauge how significant a development is_. Just because we have a new question or problem that needs answering in a certain field doesn’t always mean there has to be some ground breaking answer. Some of the problem is scholars in fields may feel pressured to give the powers that be something to chew on. They look at the past and see that dressing up the same idea with limited changes has worked before so they roll with it. Is that really helping in solving the problem. While a number of small changes may ultimately lead the major shift that is needed it would be helpful to quantify their work. It may seem cruel but putting things on a scale help to make a clear distinction on the value of their work with no room for interpretation. 

### Nuance, whether you like it or not 

Looking at the conclusion of the essay if seems the author is on repeat mode with how many times he drops the **nuance bomb**. Another person reading the article mentioned that they don’t think the author was using nuance in the right way. I took it as the author poking fun at the idea of nuance. Thinking on it I took this overuse of nuance as a illustration of how nuance is going to force feed to us _whether we like it or not_. 
