# Comments for Nuance
*Nuance can be defined as a subtle difference, often referring to color or theory*. As history is one of the oldest humanity profession, is it impossible not to see that the discipline has been overrun by all sorts of nuance. The historical theory has been changing throughout time as the historiographical subject has been evolving. Even throughout school, have we been taught how to write in Nuanced ways as a way to avoid plagiarism when expressing common knowledge or facts such as dates, times of birth, or places of battles. 
 
## postmodern
The theory of postmodernism is perhaps one of the best-known ones for nuance while also not seeming like it. See, **postmodernism** is a theory that rejects all previous methods before it. It brings no real new methodologies except doing the exact opposite. This, of course, is not as simple. Where one would write history though books, postmodernism would use quantitative data. However, postmodernism also runs into the problem of even using a bit from other theories such as Marxism when it comes to learning about women in the workforce during the rise of gender studies. Though postmodernism tries to not be nuance and instead be a theory that is entirely different than everything else, it often fails when it uses other methods as analysis for their contradictory ideas.

## historical writing
Nuance is mostly just a nuisance when it comes to theory. However, when it comes to historical writing and fiction, it takes a more shinning roll. Yes, nuance is supposed to be a subtle difference, but it is just the starting tap to get the ball rolling. For example, " *All Quiet on the Western Front*" by Erich Maria is a WWI novel, which is a topic that has been taught and written about for quite a while. Yet, the nuance in this book is that it is written from a German perspective. This is a small difference as the battles and ending of the war are inarguable, but the difference in attitude leads to a chain of variations that all start with a tiny decision. This is how nuance works best in a novel setting, by making one small change such as the change in perspective or perhaps a creative interpretation to an even such as " *The Man in the High Castle*." These butterfly flapping quickly turns into a tornado before the blink of an eye. 
