## Keeping Things Simple

When I think of History I think of the small details we have about a certain time in History. I agree this article relates well to history because Historians tend to make things complex to explain a certain event. What I like about Healy is that he claims a complex approach doesn't necessarily make a better theory. I am not against  using nuance in history to make things interesting, but nuance needs to be used in a way that makes the "Theory" understandable to everyone and not just people educated in that particular field. When it comes to adding nuance to widely accepted understandings to the past, I would also like to say **"Fuck It"**.

Why should we make things that people already understand complicated just to make a better theory or story? Complicating history or whatever subjecting we are complicating is what makes nuance bad and gives it a bad rep. Adding nuance to a history could also make history unreliable because complicating it and adding things to the “theory”, through time, the event or person we are looking at could get changed into something else. With technology becoming more advance and historians using digital archives I think historians will follow historical laws to make sure people don’t start getting sources that are unreliable. Right now, as Healy said, *“Those theories are built out with the techniques, methods, or rules that actively constrain what one say….but yet in practice they are what keep theory under control”*.  I think its ok for historians to practice historical law, but I don’t think its ok when they will start disregarding or noticing other people’s work just because it doesn’t follow the rules. Still let people be creative and read their work without judgement or these “rules”, and then decide of the work is reliable. 

With digital archives we could have conflicting sources, but it doesn’t necessarily mean it’s challenging historical authority. It could be that the history is more accurate and made for more people to have access to and understand.  I think we ask this question because we are scared of the digital age and what it could turn history into. We are scared that what we have always known about a subject in history is completely wrong based on new finding that we find in a digital archive that so many people didn’t have access to before. I hate to admit it, because digital history is a hard concept for me to grasp, but I actually think it will help history be more reliable because of collective research throughout the world.
