### Fuck Nuance

This article applies well to history. Not equally, but it does apply, especially when thinking about __abstraction__ and fine grain or what I thought of as quantitative historical research. Healy states that "we lose information by adding detail. A further odd consequence is that the apparent scope of theories increases even as the range of their explanatory application narrows" (p. 7). I think that this is true, especially for histroy. The more we add to something, the more we blur the lines and distort the truth. I think about what Alex Rosenberg said about how there are thousands upon thousands of books about president Lincoln; however, they are all different. Is that not nuance? __Which one is less nuanced than the other how do we decided or measure such things?__  Would models help with figuring such things out? The history of history has been that of facts. Things like models are somewhat new to history. I don't feel that models are a nuance; instead, they add something to history, a deeper understanding of the topic at hand.

In the context of what Healy is writing, it sounds like sociologist add nuance to things like theory to blur the lines purposefully. For historians, I think that the majority of the time, they don't do it on purpose every historian values one aspect of a person or historical event over another. Therefore, I think nuance and its value or devaluing of information are dependent on the subject in which nuance is being used or added. This is going to be rude, but from reading the article, it sounds like in sociology, they are throwing ideas and things around, adding more and more to a theory until it covers so much and so little at the same time. In terms of history, nuance is different. I think it is used to make a story more attractive to the readers like that of historical fiction. History can be very dull, but adding a little nuance can probably change it around.

__I think what it comes down to is the question, is Nuance good or bad?__ I think its both. If you are going to use Nuance, be aware that you are using Nuance. I am sure that it can go from adding a little to a lot really quickly. If a historian throws in Nuance every time they write something, then it is not history it is something different. __One more question is using Nuance lying?__

