# _Fuck Nuance_

### Modern Machiavelli
Healy definitely comes across with a Machialvellian approach to viewing and understanding events. He has a wider, "big-picture", "greater-good" kind of attitude about knowledge and theories in general. This is interesting in particular for this course, as Healy asks whether or not this understanding can be traced backwards and we (as a class) have been asking whether or not these perspectives have ever left the practice. 
Nuance makes decision making harder. Nuance makes collaboration and research harder. Simple, overarching theories, which academics and the public can understand and discuss makes things easier. But, can sociologists (those who study _society_) or historians truly **understand** society without looking _beyond_ the simple theories and basic, widely-accepted concepts? Society is inherently nuanced. Each individual life, with its own complexities, interacting to create 'society'. I guess Healy would also identify as much more of a Structuralist (Top-down, structures create identity of society) than a Fundamentalist (Bottom-up, people create social structures).
### Isn't this how Meta-Narratives are Created?
Healy uses the word "abstract" to define what I would call "metanarratives". 
>"Abstraction is a way of thinking where “new ideas or conceptions are formed
by considering several objects or ideas and omitting the features that distinguish them'. Abstraction means throwing away detail, getting rid of particulars" (5).

Huge, red flags are being thrown into the air as I read this. I do understand how a non-historian may not be _as_ sensitive to these issues and the impact of these types of thoughts throughout history, but it nonetheless makes me nervous. While 'generalizations' themselves are not inherently damaging, the inferences which are made based on generalizations often are. Healy, also, ignores the inherent nuance of generalizations. 'Generalizations' are never the simple, neat overarching concepts he seems to think they are. Generalizations are compiled of years of in-depth research and observation. Then, add-in the biases of who is making these generalizations, why they perceive things the way that they do, and why they felt the need to generalize that thing in the first place... **Everything is inherently nuanced, it's simply a matter of whether or not we want to look at it.** Generalizations are not any less nuanced, in fact they may be more so, as they act as a way for academics to declare what is worth their time to analyze and what is not, and declaring that is a statement of power and position in society. 
### Is it _Actually_ Doing Harm?
So, Healy's main argument is that in the pursuit of nuance, so much detail is added that information is ultimately lost. This seems to be geared towards a 'concern' for how information will be processed by people outside of the field. I think this is a pretty unfounded concern that, ironically, completely ignores how most people process information at all. Nuance will extremely aid academics interested in learning more about a certain subject, but someone who is already not studying the subject will naturally filter out excess information. 
When you 'read' a Wikipedia article, do you actually read every word? No. We skim, we jump to headers which are most relevant to our interests, we remember key words/facts, and then we move on. We naturally sort through nuance which does not feed our interests, we do it every day without even thinking about it. But they still have a profound effect on these 'generalizations' which are formed. If everyone who reads the same Wikipedia article remembers a different detail, then the collective opinion of it begins to change. And if you don't like nuance, like Healy, then just don't read it... It exists for people who do want it and is easy to avoid for people who do not. 
