

Kieran Healy approaches the concept of nuance by the K.I.S.S. principle – that is keep it simple, stupid. He argues that sociologists add nuance to their work which results in widening the scope of their theories which adds complexity and sophistication to existing theories, without the innovation of creating new ones. He says that by broadening these existing scopes of theory and adding complexity to them, we are not improving them but rather arbitrarily and counterintuitively adding complexity and sophistication for its own sake. I agree that we should refrain from trying to make theoretical models “richer” and look to discover new found theories. Perhaps, as Healy suggest, that the reason this occurs is because “thinking up compelling or interesting ideas is difficult, so it is often easier to embrace complexity than cut through it”. It makes sense, at least to me, that the natural course (including the progression of social  science) is to take the path of least resistance. This path, however, is a result of laziness and weakness of sociological discipline. Also, because sociological theories tend to be very abstract, the abstractness of such theory permits fluidity, change, and incorporation of nuance in into the academic discipline. One weakness of nuance is sociology theory building is multi-dimensionality. There is not an accepted method of shared standards including logic, research methods, or “simply an agreed upon focus on empirically delimited area” (Healy, 7). Without these shared standards, how is one to comprehend these multifaceted abstractions in a multidimensional view all at once?  This furthermore complicates theorical abstraction and makes it difficult to comprehend in a logical and practical sense. I also agree with Healy’s criticism of theorical frameworks being unreputable. If one is to consider sociology to be a social “science”, then this violates the very nature of what academic guidelines of science means - that any observations, claims, or theories must be challengeable and refutable. You cannot claim anything, especially what you call a social science, to be refutable and therefore absolutely true. How can you make a theoretical framework refutable and amendable at the same time? I agree with Healy’s argument that nuance in the application of sociology obscures intellectual progression and complicates common comprehension. On principled grounds, theoretical abstraction should be simple, good (interesting), and “adequately addresses some feature of social reality” (Healy, 6). Admittedly, I do not know enough about sociology to be able to determine holistically that I agree with Healy’s criticism of nuance as it serves in abstract theory. I do otherwise agree with his points if what he says is actually true. I wish I knew enough about sociological and theory have an opinion of certainty. However, I agree that this same premise applies equally in history. 

