## What’s with all the Nuance? ##

  According to the author, and in its’ simplest terms, ***Nuance*** is a strategy used to add a layer of sophistication to a concept or idea in fields such as Math, sociology, history etc. Fields that have a definite correlation between sophistication and success. The more sophisticated something sounds, the more it must be true or the more knowledgeable the person producing the evidence etc. must be. As I was reading this, I couldn’t help but think of people who are well versed in rhetoric. Whether they have a vast amount of knowledge or not, and because they are persuasive speakers and know a lot of ‘fancy’ terminology, the more authoritative they seem and inherently must be, on whatever topic and/or discussion they are engaging in.

## Nuance and History ##
Despite the article being obviously applied to the discipline of sociology, Nuance can also be applied to the study of history depending on how it gets applied and whether we recognize it for what it is. To expand on this further, I mean that Nuance as it is applicable to history does not necessarily mean that it is a bad thing. I think that as long as we recognize that nuance can sometimes be seen as adding some ‘*fluff*’ or ‘*pizzazz*’ to an already existing concept to give it more of a dramatic or attention-grabbing effect, then it is not necessarily a bad thing. However, on the other end of that is if nuance gets applied to a concept, theory, etc. and we see this as a whole new concept, then that does not give credit where credit is due for what was in place beforehand. Furthermore, if we do not recognize that adding more ‘fluff’ does not necessarily constitute more knowledge of the subject matter, that further problematizes Nuance in History. 

## What Value Does Nuance Add? ##
As the digital age continues to flourish, so does the vast amount of knowledge at our fingertips. But with all that knowledge made available to us, we must also constantly keep in mind that we cannot accept everything, especially historical content as truth. Part of a historian’s job is to recognize biases within a subject and what the overarching motives a work is either promoting or trying to achieve. Adding to that is this idea of Nuance. History as a subject is not very exciting to a lot of people, so adding layers to history to get others engaged in the subject can be beneficial if it is used in the right way. It doesn’t really matter how you get to a desired outcome or what methods you used, as long as the desired outcome is achieved. The main thing that needs to be kept in mind when thinking about history, is that not every piece of ‘*fluff*’ is intended to incite a very big change. Yes, small changes over time can achieve a big change or revelation in history somewhere down the line but recognizing the difference and having a clear distinction of it is what is ultimately going to give us a ‘*healthy*’ balance between ***Nuance and History***. 
