### Comments on _Fuck Nuance_

In the sense that nuance can lead to dense writing that doesn't really say anything, this article can definitely also apply to history.  A lot of historical writing, especially of the academic variety, can be impenetrable, due to both exclusionary language, and and overly defended arguments.  Both of these issues have a base in nuance.  

##### The Connoisseur 
Healy's discussion of the aesthetic aspects of nuance captured my imagination more than any other aspect of his argument.  He talks about wine culture, but you can also see it now in the rapidly growing craft beer scene (I'm taking a class on it, so please bear with me.)  A completely new vernacular is being constructed to give a more _nuanced_ view of beer.  In reality, it is just creating a "hierarchy of taste" that excludes those who don't understand the new subtleties of what makes beer good.  What does "hops forward" even mean?  The same process has taken place in many fields, the study of history being one.  Embracing complexity and nuance in historical study can be a method to exclude those who do not grasp the insider vernacular, and the constructed demands of nuance, from engaging in both the production and enjoyment of historical work.

##### Nuance and Historiography
In what sense has all history since the 19th century been a matter of nuance?  Definitely not due to the fact that the subject matter has become more narrow, and less a sweeping grand narrative.  Nuance and detail are not one in the same.  Nor is rigorous sourcing purely an act of nuance.  In the sense that historians have been less likely to make _theories_ and _models_ of history in recent years, then the answer is that nuance has had a huge impact on history.  A historian's fear of rebuttal by failing to properly engage with the innumerable nuances of their subject, will prevent them from making certain types of arguments based on their study.  The question is to whether this is a good or bad thing?  Should theories of history, despite their lack of nuance, be expressed, and allowed to succeed or fail based on their efficacy.  Or are such theories too dangerous?  Ideas have the power to shift reality, and historical viewpoints that ignore nuance can have a lasting impact on how historians view history, and how the public consumes it.
