### Commenter: “Fuck Nuance”
Finally! A reading I can back 100%. Kieran Healy deserves a round of applause. 

**I say this with sincerity: I, as a historian, want to find meaning in my work!** We have just spent the last fourteen weeks breaking down everything we thought we knew as historians. This schooling ranged from ‘can anyone be truly biased-free?’ to ‘how to we validate sources’ to ‘how should we be writing histories’ to ‘is one method more meaningful to the rest’? We covered concepts that could have been an entirely philosophical class in itself… and frankly, I’m more *confused and troubled* than ever about how I should write history! THERE’S TOO MUCH NAUNCE! If we must consider ever little speck of grain throughout the totality of the discipline of history, we must ultimately conclude that the task of representing these nuances is far too much to reasonably write about. This makes the task of writing history **meaningless**! And I want to find meaning in my work! 

**Now, that’s not to say that nuance isn’t important.** Some theses might be able to literally be rebutted with one instance of nuance. In that case, it is especially important you consider various factors to strengthen one’s argument. But I believe Healy said it best when he wrote that nuance should only be applied to a theory when that nuance is considered: *good* because it can produce correct explanations for things, *interesting* because wanting your writing to be interesting is fair desire for any writer, and *influential* to continue to promote the study of the subject **(5)**. Nuance must be used to strengthen ones argument, not widen its breath. Your thesis isn’t automatically stronger just because you’ve written done as many instances of nuances you could think of. 

Nuances also physically confines the scope of our ideas to limiting factors. By abstractly processing a theory of history, one might reach profound conclusions that were otherwise not available for you to conclude towards because of nuance’s parameters **(6)**. **Sure, you might be wrong,** but take a leap of faith and present something bold and new! *You will find people who disagree with you whether you’ve considered every minute aspect of nuance or whether you haven’t.*

I believe a **solution** to this problem that Healy presents, is to write separate books about separate instances of nuance. This allows the topics to get heard, presented, and considered. It also allows these individual topics to be thoroughly fleshed out as opposed to a suggestion of the topic in a history book that must mentioned twenty other instances of nuance. In this instance, historians from all backgrounds and expertise can input their various opinions through their topic of nuance. This way a author has the ability to focus on their thesis alone, to produce their strongest work.

I believe nuance is important. But the study of history will **always** be around and we must find ways to manage our influx of modern ideas and parameters that doesn’t weigh down the study. **Otherwise, history might as well not be written for fear of offending nuances.** 
